Connect
I am the Chief Insights Officer for Forbes Media responsible for managing Forbes' Insights thought leadership research division, as well as the Forbes CMO Practice. I am the co-author of  "Profitable Brilliance: How Professional Services Firms Become Thought Leaders" now available on Amazon  http://amzn.to/OETmMz as the previously published  "In the Line of Money: Branding Yourself Strategically to the Financial Elite" available on Amazon http://amzn.to/AuHRN9  Bruce H. Rogers is the co-author of the recently published book Profitable Brilliance: How Professional Service Firms Become Thought Leaders
A Series of Forbes Insights Profiles of Thought Leaders Changing the Business Landscape.
Data-driven digital marketing is big business. According to eMarketer some 55% of  all digital advertising dollars will be driven by programmatic initiatives in 2015 where computer speed and machine learning take precedence over human guess work. By 2016 that number is expected to rise to 63% representing over $20 billion in programmatic ad buys.
Legions of data scientists and math Ph.Ds have taken over the digital advertising business. And with good reason. They are serving to enhance efficiency for the notoriously inefficient business of marketing.
Digital marketing now has more in common with Rocket Science than with Mad Men and the true Rocket Scientist in the business is George John, co-founder, Chairman and CEO of Rocket Fuel Rocket Fuel . Rocket Fuel positions itself as a leading programmatic digital marketing platform that uses deep predictive science, big data and artificial intelligence (AI) to learn, act, adapt and scale, to improve marketing ROI in digital media across all customer touch points including paid media — web, mobile, video and social — and CRM channels.
George John, Co-Founder, Chairman and CEO, Rocket Fuel
“For me, marketing combines math and data science approaches and trying to discover the truths in the data,” says John. But according to John, Rocket Fuel’s mission is more than just computer-assisted digital marketing. By making marketing dollars work harder and go further, “innovative marketers can drive brand loyalty, increase sales and gain insights that improve every subsequent marketing action,” says John.  The company he helped found in 2008 is now a publicly-traded, global digital advertising platform with revenues of $240.6 million for 2013, representing 126% Y-O-Y growth (Rocketfuel will announce 2014 full-year financials  on February 19).
In his Q3 2014 earnings statement John stated, “Rocket Fuel delivered strong results for our customers which drove solid financial results for our company, highlighted by another great quarter for mobile. The close of our acquisition of [x+1] in September 2014 is already allowing us to open new doors with top-tier marketers who are interested in Rocket Fuel’s programmatic marketing hub. Our combined DMP and DSP gives marketers more transparency, control, and opportunities than ever before to exceed their marketing objectives.”
The idea for Rocket Fuel evolved over John’s now 20-year career helping marketers succeed using data and AI. While running ad targeting and content personalization teams at Yahoo Yahoo !, John saw that the market wasn’t building technology to drive real results.  They were only building technologies to deliver ad campaigns. John says, “It was a strange world in digital advertising where companies were just beginning to get more serious about evaluating their campaigns based on real results. We saw that it should not be about just running the campaign.  It’s about business outcomes like selling cars or creating new customers, but it seemed that there were no companies out there really building technology for that,” says John.
Page 1 / 2
Enter Your Comment
KeepingItReal 3 months ago
As a shareholder of Rocket Fuel, I find this article to be absurd! Maybe it’ just poor timing on your part, but have you checked the stock price lately? You state that George John is not your average entrepreneur. That he’s not even your average computer science Ph.D. That he recognized from an early age that his facility for math and logic-based problem solving set him apart That may be true but those are NOT the skills needed to be a CEO of a publicly traded company! He has failed in this role! THE FACTS SPEAK FOR THEMSELVES. LOOK AT THE STOCK PRICE! And his lack of concern for the shareholders has left us very bitter. HE NEVER SPEAKS OF RESTORING SHAREHOLDER CONFIDENCE, OR INCREASING SHAREHOLDER VALUE. AND I FIND THAT OFFENSIVE! He just doesn’t get the concept. Go review some of his interviews, posted on YouTube or anywhere else! He never mentions SHAREHOLDER VALUE! So what is the purpose of your article? To feed someone’s ego? How about asking him the tough questions (that CEO’s need to be asked) and then commenting on what his plans are to recuperate shareholder losses. let alone provide us a return on our investments?
Bruce Rogers , Forbes Staff 3 months ago
Thanks for your comment. I write about disruptive technology, the CEOs who found those companies and their personal journey. I am not writing about stock recommendations.
