Honda debuts its safer driving system: Car steers drivers, brakes to avoid pedestrians and even READS traffic signs
Honda's system is set to be rolled out by the end of this year in Japan
‘Sensing’ tech offers a collection of driving aids to make journeys safer
It uses a radar and camera mounted on a car to see obstacles ahead
Radar spots obstacles in the road, such as pedestrians, oncoming vehicles, or cars directly in front, while the camera gauges their speed and distance
System provides warnings to drivers and takes control by steering if needed
It can brake for pedestrians or steer to keep a car in lane on the motorway 
100 shares
Honda has showcased a new  system that can read road signs and spot pedestrians to lessen the chance of collisions – and it is set to be rolled out by the end of this year.
The Japanese company’s ‘Sensing’ technology offers a collection of driving aids to make journeys safer and easier for drivers. 
They work using a ‘millimetre-wave radar’ which is fitted to a car’s radiator grille and a monocular camera mounted near the car’s rear-view mirror.
Honda has revealed a driver-assistive system that can read road signs and spot pedestrians to lessen the chance of collisions – and it's set to be rolled out by the end of this year. It uses a ‘millimetre-wave radar’ which is fitted to a car’s radiator grille and a monocular camera mounted near the car’s rear-view mirror (illustrated)
More than 1.2 million people are killed in car crashes around the world every year, but auto manufacturers are developing increasingly smart cars with a host of new safety features that give vehicles a mind of their own.
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
Honda's radar can spot obstacles in the road, such as pedestrians, oncoming vehicles, or cars directly in front, while the camera captures information such as the object’s size, speed and distance from the front of the car.
When there is a risk of collision with a vehicleor a pedestrian, the system can provide the driver with audio and visual warnings.
The radar spots obstacles in the road, such as pedestrians, oncoming vehicles, or cars directly in front, while the camera captures information such as the object’s size, speed and distance from the front of the car. The system can warn the driver of an obstacle and brake if needed, as shown in this diagram
If a pedestrian or obstacle is too close, the Collision Mitigation Braking System (CMBS) automatically applies gentle brake pressure to warn the driver. If they don’t respond, the system automatically brakes to avoid an obstacle and a driver can steer the while to activate a 'collision avoidance effort' (pictured) 
If the distance gets closer, the Collision Mitigation Braking System (CMBS) will automatically apply gentle brake pressure to warn the driver. 
If they don’t respond, the system will automatically brake hard to avoid an obstacle.
Developing a system that can detect pedestrians has been a challenge for many car manufacturers because they do not reflect radio waves well and can move unpredictably or quickly.
But the camera used in the new system can spot them within 196ft (60 metres) ahead of the vehicle.
The system itself recognises the car’s surroundings and the intentions of the driver, the company says.
For example, the Road Departure Mitigation (RDM) system keeps a car in its lane. The camera detects the lane boundaries and if the car looks like it will stray from a detected line, the steering wheel will vibrate to warn the driver.
The bundle of sensing technology also uses the camera to read traffic signs (illustrated) to show them on the dashboard display, or a heads-up display projected onto the windscreen, making it easier for drivers to notice a change in the speed limit
It will also correct steering, if necessary, to pull the car back into lane. If it predicts that a vehicle could leave the road – if a driver has fallen asleep at the wheel, for example – it will brake.
The bundle of sensing technology also uses the camera to read traffic signs to show them on the dashboard display, or a heads-up display projected onto the windscreen, making it easier for drivers to notice a change in the speed limit.
Honda’s sensing technology will be embedded in its Legend – a luxury car that will become available in Japan towards the end of this year.
The model is known as the Acura RLX in the US. The technology will be rolled out to other cars in Japan, before being embedded in US vehicles.
It is expected to bridge the gap between today’s minimal driver assist technology and autonomous vehicles of the future. 
KEY FEATURES OF HONDA SENSING 
The Lane assist system is shown, which warns drivers about their position and helps them stay in lane if they are about to leave the road
Collision Mitigation Braking System: The radar and camera can detect oncoming vehicles and pedestrians. 
If there is a risk of a collision, the system warns the driver and if they don’t respond, it brakes hard.
Road Departure Mitigation system: The camera detects lane boundaries and if a car drives outside them, a warning is shown on the display and the steering wheel vibrates. 
It will correct steering is necessary and brake to stop a car coming off the road.
Pedestrian Collision Mitigation Steering System: The system detects pedestrians and a boundary line on the side of the road. 
It can predict a crash if the car strays from the road and will steer the car away from the person if necessary.
Lane Keeping Assist System: The system will assist the driver’s steering during highway driving to keep the vehicle in the middle of the lane using a vibrating steering wheel.
Adaptive Cruise Control: The system can detect the distance and speed gap from a vehicle ahead, controlling the acceleration and braking so an appropriate distance is maintained.
Traffic Sign Recognition: The camera detects traffic signs and they are shown on the display or a heads-up display on the windscreen.
False Start Prevention Function: The radar can spot a vehicle in front of a car that’s stopped or is driving at a low speed. The system stops sudden accidental acceleration to prevent crashes.
Lead Car Departure Notification System: The radar can detect when a car in front stops in traffic, giving the driver a visual and audio warning to prepare to brake.
Share or comment on this article
100
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
