ATLAS Robot built by Boston Dyanmics- which Google recently bought
Dubbed Ian, the Atlas robot is 6ft 2in tall and weighs in at 330lb
Was programmed to perform move by Florida team 
5.8k shares
For fans of the cult film the Karate Kid, it is a familiar pose.
However, in the latest video from the US military team developing a two legged fighting robot, the buildup to 'crane kick' is seen in a new way.
The researchers taught the robot to stand on one leg - recreating a key scene from the film in the process.
Scroll down for video 
The Atlas robot has already shown it can walk, jump and even drive a car 
THE ATLAS ROBOT
According to Boston Dynamics, Atlas is a 'high mobility, humanoid robot designed to negotiate outdoor, rough terrain. 
'Atlas can walk bipedally leaving the upper limbs free to lift, carry, and manipulate the environment. 
'In extremely challenging terrain, Atlas is strong and coordinated enough to climb using hands and feet, to pick its way through congested spaces.' 
The Atlas robot created by Google-owned firm Boston Dynamics is a formidable figure at 6ft 2in tall and weighing in at 330lb.
The robot boasts 28 hydraulically actuated joints and stereo vision, and is one of the most advanced robots ever created.
However, it's not just karate - Ian has another trick up his sleeve - software written by the Florida Institute for Human and Machine Interaction which allows him to drive a car.
'To achieve this level of maneuverability in robots, researchers at IHMC look toward nature,' the team say.
'Inspired by the speed of cheetahs, the endurance of horses, the maneuverability of monkeys, and the versatility of humans, IHMC researchers are on a quest to develop legged robots that are fast, efficient, and graceful, with the mobility required to access many of the same places that humans can.'
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
At the US Government's Robo-Olympics, Ian came second, despite competing as a virtual software simulation. 
Despite his lack of limbs, the world's most innocuously named 'bot was able to walk, carry a fire hose and, most impressively, get in a car and drive it.
The 'crane' stance, being held by Karate Kid Daniel LaRusso (played by Ralph Maccio left) in the 1984 film inspired the latest movements of the Atlas robot. It demonstrates strong balancing skills and composure and showcases the agility of the Google-owned machine, said the firm
Atlas is a high mobility, humanoid robot designed to negotiate outdoor, rough terrain, Boston Dynamics said.
'Atlas can walk bipedally leaving the upper limbs free to lift, carry, and manipulate the environment. In extremely challenging terrain, Atlas is strong and coordinated enough to climb using hands and feet, to pick its way through congested spaces.
The researchers taught the robot the trick to show off its balance.
The Atlas robot has an articulated sensor head includes stereo cameras and a laser range finder so it can 'see' where it is going.
'Articulated, sensate hands will enable Atlas to use tools designed for human use. Atlas includes 28 hydraulically-actuated degrees of freedom, two hands, arms, legs, feet and a torso.
'An articulated sensor head includes stereo cameras and a laser range finder.' 
 
5.8k
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
