change edition:
MPs 'dismayed' that police continue to compile database of faces
Commons science and technology committee says practice of uploading custody photographs appears to flout high court ruling from 2012
More than 12m images have been uploaded to the police national database for use with facial recognition software. Photograph: Image Source/Alamy
Last modified on Friday 6 March 2015 19.07 EST
A committee of MPs has condemned police for continuing to upload custody photographs, including of people never charged, to a face recognition database, despite a high court judgement that ruled the practice was unlawful.
In a report into use of biometric data, the Commons Science and Technology Committee said it was “dismayed” to learn that more than 12m photographs had been entered into the Police National Database without proper testing or oversight. It also noted that current practice appeared to flout a high court ruling from 2012 that said the contemporary policy of retaining custody photographs was unlawful.
Some forces, including the Met, have stopped putting images on the national database until the law is clarified. But others have continued to upload photographs in the absence of any national guidance.
The chairman of the committee, Labour MP Andrew Miller, said they were not against the police using biometric technologies such as facial recognition to combat crime. But he added: “We were alarmed to discover that the police have begun uploading custody photographs of people to the Police National Database and using facial recognition software without any regulatory oversight – some of the people had not even been charged.”
The report said there had been “a worrying lack of government oversight and regulation” around the use of biometric data. And that “compounding this confusion” there was an “apparent gap in the legislation regarding the retention of images, and the use of facial recognition software, by the police”.
It also questioned why the system for matching faces had not been thoroughly tested before being deployed. “It is highly regrettable that testing of the facial matching technology employed by the police does not appear to have occurred prior to the searchable national database of custody photographs going live,” the committee’s report says.
The role of Alastair MacGregor, the independent biometrics commissioner, covers the use of DNA and fingerprints, but not other areas including face and voice recognition. The committee said, as a minimum, his remit should be expanded to include the police use and retention of facial images.
As part of the inquiry, MacGregor told the committee that a searchable national database of custody photographs “had been put into operational use” by the police “in the apparent absence of any very rigorous testing of the reliability of the facial matching technology that is being employed”.
The government has promised a review of the statutory basis for the retention of facial images, which the committee welcomed.
