Is this the future of schools? ROBOT lets teachers take lessons, check work and talk to students from thousands of miles away
Teachers at The Nexus Academy of Columbus, Ohio, control 4ft tall robot
They log in from as far away as Arizona to take lessons using the robot
A screen displays a video of their face while a camera allows them to see
Pupils say the robot felt weird at first but it made lessons more personal
The teacher can see the class and their work using the robot's camera
44 shares
Teachers may soon be able to lecture pupils, view their work and help them with any problems without ever stepping foot in the classroom.
A school in Columbus Ohio has introduced a new robo-teacher into its classrooms to allow staff in other parts of the country to teach their pupils.
The 4ft (1.2 metre) tall robot features a screen that broadcasts a video of the teacher's face  and a camera allows the teacher to see what is going on in the classroom.
Scroll down for video 
A school in Columbus Ohio has introduced a new robo-teacher into its classrooms to allow staff in other parts of the country to teach their pupils. The 4ft (1.2 metre) tall robot features a screen that broadcasts a video of the teacher's face and a camera allows the teacher to see what is going on in the classroom
Thomas Fetch, a social studies teacher at Nexus Academy of Columbus is one of the first to trial the robot, controlling it from his computer more than 1,600 miles (2,570km) away in Arizona.
RELATED ARTICLES
44 shares
In the past the school has had to rely upon video calling and conference call style lessons for its remote teachers.
ROBOTIC BUTLERS ARE COMING 
British academics have helped develop a robot, which is both a home help and a friend to older people who may be ill, trapped and alone.
The Care-O-bot 3 is much more like a utilitarian household appliance than the action figures that featured in the futuristic film iRobot, starring Will Smith.
And she - or he - is more likely to offer a Karaoke sing along and make a cup of coffee than go on a murderous rampage - or at least that is the idea.
The robot is the result of a collaboration between British and European academics under the umbrella of Accompany - Acceptable Robotics Companions for Ageing Years.
The hope is that it will help older people to stay in their homes and live an independent life, rather than being moved miles away from friends and family into an expensive care home. 
With the help of the $6,000 (£4,000) Telepresence robot, however, Mr Fetch can trundle between the desks and look at pupils work as they are doing it.
Speaking to the Hechingerreport.org , Mr Fetch said: 'I like driving it around and feeling like I am in the school. It’s neat to feel like I am part of the classroom.
'I was so far away, but with the help of this body I could walk around the building.'
With robots increasingly being developed for use in healthcare, care homes and around the house, it was only a matter of time before they arrived in schools.
The Nexus Academy of Columbus is part of a network of seven schools in Ohio, Michigan and Indiana that uses a mix of in-school teachers and remote teachers to hold lessons. Each of the schools now have one robot.
However, Mr Fetch said there can be the odd technical hiccup - with the robot occasionally driving into doors and walls.
He blamed this on the depth perception and peripheral vision of the robot not being 'that great.'
It means that misbehaving pupils who might normally have been caught red handed out of the corner of the teacher's eye can possibly get away with it now.
The robot could be a forerunner of schools of the future, rather like this scene from the cartoon the Jetsons
The robotic teachers do encounter the odd problem as the vision isn't great meaning they do drive into walls. The school's 120 pupils have reacted well to their robot teachers and said that being able to see the teacher's face in the classroom and being able to interact made the lessons feel more personal
According to Hechingerreport.org, who went to see the robots in action, the schools 120 pupils have reacted well to their robot teachers.
They said that being able to see the teacher's face in the classroom and being able to interact made the lessons feel more personal.
Thomas Hatch, one of the pupils at the school said: 'It sort of grew on me.
'Seeing the teacher’s face, and they would be there, showing up in the room – it felt more personal than the just a screen.'
WILL ROBOTS EVENTUALLY TAKE OUR JOBS?
The 'Robear' has a cub-like face but packs enough strength to transfer patients from a wheelchair (pictured) or a floor-level bed to a bath, for example
A recent report by management consulting firm Boston Consulting Group predicted by 2025 the number of 'automatable' tasks will rise to 25 per cent.
This will lead to robots replacing many human jobs - and is a trend that has already begun in Japan. 
Earlier this week Riken-SRK Collaboration Centre for Human-Interactive Robot Research in Nagoya, Japan unveiled its latest Robear. 
The 'Robear' has a cub-like face but has enough strength to transfer patients from a wheelchair or a floor-level bed to a bath. 
It weighs 309lb (140kg) with extending legs that stop the 'bear' from falling over and it moves slowly and smoothly thanks to advance actuators in its mechanical arms.
And at the start of the month, Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group said it will begin employing a humanoid called Nao in its branches from April, on a trial basis. 
And if the trial is successful, the robotic employees will be rolled out to more branches of the Japanese bank by 2020. 
Elsewhere, in China there is a hotel manned entirely by robots. 
From reception desk staff to security doormen and waiters, the Pengheng Space Capsules Hotel in Shenzhen, China, has built, rather than hired, new employees.
Start-up costs and robot maintenance aside, staff bills are minimal and the hotel can pass these savings back to the customer as a night's stay costs just £6.80 per night. 
According to Dr Maggie Aderin-Pocock, a research fellow in UCL Department of Science and Technology Studies,  care for the elderly and even children are among the jobs to be replaced by artificially intelligent beings within the next 50 years.
Her research suggests human workers across a plethora of service sectors and caring professions could be replaced by droids within our lifetimes.
She believes that as the rapid advances in technology achieved this century are projected to continue at an astonishing rate, this will allow robots to break free of science fiction and establish themselves in our everyday life.
 
 
Read more:
44
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
