The AIA has announced that four machine vision industry leaders have been elected to two-year terms on the Board of Directors of AIA – Advancing Vision + Imaging, the industry’s trade group.
MORE ARTICLES
Wallace Latimer, PLM Machine Vision, Coherent Inc. and Rex Lee, Ph.D., CEO/President, Pyramid Imaging, Inc. were both elected to their first term on the AIA Board.
"
Lee also commented on his election: "I’m honored to be selected as a new board member of AIA," he said. "I will strive to bring as much enthusiasm as I can with an honest and open attitude. My only agenda is helping our organization continue to be of service to the members of AIA, and to maintain a high level of professionalism."
In addition, Ghislain Beaupré, VP R&D and Operations, Teledyne DALSA and Edward Roney, National Account Manager, Intelligent Robotics, FANUC America Corporation, were re-elected to the board.
The other 2015 members of the AIA Board of Directors include Steve Mott, Vice President, Components Express Inc. and Chair of the AIA Board; Marc Marini, Director, National Instruments and Vice Chair of the AIA Board; Greg Hollows, Director, Machine Vision Solutions, Edmund Optics and Past Chair of the AIA Board; Jeff Burnstein, AIA President; George Chamberlain, President, Pleora Technologies; John Merva, Vice President, Gardasoft Vision; Rusty Ponce de Leon, President, Phase 1 Technology Corp.; and Steve Wardell, Interim Director, Imaging, ATS Imaging.
John Jennings, Chief Commercial Officer, Basler AG is retiring from the AIA Board after three terms of dedicated service to AIA.
Share your vision-related news by contacting James Carroll , Senior Web Editor, Vision Systems Design
To receive news like this in your inbox, click here .
 
May 5, 2015
May 5, 2015
April 1, 2015
March 18, 2015
March 4, 2015
FROM THE WEB
April 29, 2015
Please fill out the remaining fields to complete your registration.
First Name
Last Name
Company
Country
By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .
Login Don't have an account? Register now
Login with your social account:
or
Email Address
Join using your social account:
or
First Name
Last Name
Company
Country
By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .
Forgot your password?
Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instructions via email.
Email Address
Email Sent
An email has been sent to .
Please follow the instructions in the email to change your password.
Welcome to PennWell
Your account has been created and you are now logged in.
You already have an account
It looks like you've already registered with .  Please login below to link your accounts.
Email Address
Please Verify Your Account
Thank you for registering.  An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
Please Verify Your Account
The specified email address, , needs to be verified in order to login.
An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
/content/vsd/en/articles/2015/02/aia-adds-new-board-members.resendverification.html
