A UK team has designed a robot butler called Care-O-Bot 3
The machine has a flexible arm that can pick up drinks
It also has a tray - which doubles as a face - to rest objects on
Using an app, a person can tell the robot what to do
For example, it can open doors for people, or bring them a bottle
The machine is available to buy now for £180,000 ($275,000) 
227 shares
British academics have helped develop a robot, which is both a home help and a friend to older people who may be ill, trapped and alone.
The Care-O-bot 3 is much more like a utilitarian household appliance than the action figures that featured in the futuristic film iRobot, starring Will Smith.
And she - or he - is more likely to offer a Karaoke sing along and make a cup of coffee than go on a murderous rampage - or at least that is the idea.
Scroll down for video 
A UK team has designed a robot butler called Care-O-Bot 3 (shown). The machine has a flexible arm that can pick up drinks. It also has a tray - which doubles as a face - to rest objects on
The robot is the result of a collaboration between British and European academics under the umbrella of Accompany - Acceptable Robotics Companions for Ageing Years.
The hope is that it will help older people to stay in their homes and live an independent life, rather than being moved miles away from friends and family into an expensive care home.
The team, which is co-ordinated by Dr Farshid Amirabdollahian of the University of Hertfordshire, have combined a robot 'butler' and software from a range of experts to deliver Care-O-bot 3.
RELATED ARTICLES
227 shares
Importantly, the machine does far more than fetching and carrying, for it has been programmed to be a friend, providing emotional support to someone living alone.
It will suggest activities to motivate people who otherwise might spend their day, parked in a chair in front of a TV, never speaking to anyone - and it will call for help if they are in trouble.
The LCD screen offers images of a face that is smiling and happy when a task has been successful and will look downcast or sad when there is a problem, such as the user forgetting to take their medication.
It will also provide the social interaction, someone to talk to, that will help people stave off loneliness and depression.
The robot is the result of a collaboration between British and European academics under the umbrella of Accompany - Acceptable Robotics Companions for Ageing Years
The arm can be folded behind its back like a butler (left), or extended to pick up objects (right)
The machine will suggest activities to motivate people who otherwise might spend their day, parked in a chair in front of a TV - and it can even take out the rubbish
Dr Amirabdollahian, a senior lecturer in Adaptive Systems, led a three year study at the university's robot house, which involved acting out scenarios with human guinea pigs.
The robots, which are made by a German company, are already available to buy as household butlers, however he believes they can be adapted to become carers to the elderly and disabled.
They have a single arm that can lift and carry items, together with cameras and sensors as well as an LCD screen, which flips over to become a tray.
He said: 'It can act as a fetch and carry device and part of an observing system. It will work as part of a smart environment in the home, which includes cameras on the ceiling and sensors.
'These will know when the fridge door is open or the coffee machine is on. There are also motion detectors which will identify where the person is in the house.
'The robot processes this information, so the idea is that it can be directed by the person to perform various tasks, such as fetching a book or reach a high shelf.'
The LCD screen is detachable and can be used like a tablet to issue commands. It also allows the used to 'look through the eyes of the robot' via its cameras if it is sent to another room or to answer the door.
The research in Hertfordshire has been specifically looking at the interaction between robots and humans and the associated ethical problems. This element has been led by Professor of Artificial Intelligence, Dr Kerstin Dautenhahn.
The robots, which are made by a German company, are already available to buy as household butlers, however he believes they can be adapted to become carers to the elderly and disabled
The hope is that it will help older people to stay in their homes and live an independent life, rather than being moved miles away from friends and family into an expensive care home
Dr Amirabdollahian said: 'Our aim is to use the robot to increase independence and quality of life.
'The envisaged relationship between the user and the robot is that of co-learner, whereby the robot and user provide mutual assistance and so that the user is not dominated by technology, but feels empowered by it.
'We have been looking at whether this sort of technology is acceptable and the ethical tensions that exist.'
One issue is how much information collected by the robot should be shared with third parties, perhaps other members of the family who want to ensure their loved one is safe.
The team has investigated how the robot can interact with people more naturally and overcome a prejudice that machines are cold, emotionless and even sinister.
'We introduced the notion of empathy to remove the coldness. For that, we created a mask which appears on the LCD screen. Sometimes the mask is happy and sometimes it is sad and it will then explain why, for example, because someone has forgotten to take their medication,' he said.
He said the team had also introduced an element of social manners and etiquette by, for example, ensuring the robots do not get too close or invade the user's personal space.
Using an app, a person can tell the robot what to do. For example, it can open doors for people, or bring them a bottle. The team said machines like this could be in our homes in 10 years
'We have looked at the mannerisms that can be taught to machines to make the social interaction more acceptable,' he said.
The three year research project was funded by a £3.6 million ($5.5 million) grant from the European Commission. The team are now drawing up a new proposal to take the idea from the drawing board to a product that will be made available to care homes and individuals.
'We have shown that the concept works,' Dr Amirabdollahian added.
'We are now writing another proposal to turn this into a product We need to think about whether it first goes into an individual's home or a care home where one robot is looking after a lot of people.
'I would say that within ten years you will have some of these machines in people's homes.'
The Care-o- Bot 3 itself can be bought for £180,000 ($275,000), however this figure is expected to come down sharply. Intriguingly, a Care-O-Bot 4 is now being produced which has two arms, a more human shape with a more recognisable head and face.
Share or comment on this article
227
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
