Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I am a freelance journalist based in London, where I work closely with entrepreneurs around the "Silicon Roundabout", London's answer to San Francisco's Silicon Valley, New York's Silicon Alley and Israel's Silicon Wadi! I like to focus on the world's most exciting entrepreneurs and their companies, big or small, global player or humble start-up. I report on trends and discuss strategies, as well as looking at what makes a truly great entrepreneur. I am interested in what makes a successful entrepreneur tick, how they think about the world, how they run their businesses and the cultures they create. I report on the big decisions made by them and their teams, and what impact this might have on the global, or local business market. I am the editor of www.haggerston-times.com, a blog focused on tech, start-ups, investment and entrepreneurs with a particular focus on the Silicon Roundabout. I also run a boutique PR Company, Haggerston Tech and Media Services, helping local start-ups get noticed, scale up, and win investment.
5/01/2015 @ 1:36PM
1,526 views
Seal Software Founder On Quest To Provide The Ultimate In Optimized Contract Visibility and Insight
Ulf Zetterberg, CEO of Seal Software – the contract discovery and analytics start-up that was founded in Europe in 2010, before Ulf relocated the company’s top brass to Silicon Valley – declares himself mystified by the sheer volume of paper-based communication he receives on a daily basis in the States.
“Every week, a small bible’s worth of paper goes into my recycling bin,” he told me last week. “Why do companies still feel the need to communicate in this way?”
Ulf has a point. In today’s business environment, a company that is unable to manage its affairs electronically without resorting to a paper trail can come across as disorganised and lacking faith in its own technology. This, in fact, is one of the major pain points that Seal Software was founded to solve.
Ulf Zetterberg CEO of Seal Software; photo courtesy of Seal Software
All businesses buy and sell goods and services and engage in a range of partnerships, and behind every purchase, sale and partnership is a contract or an agreement. To manage those contracts effectively and efficiently, businesses need to store them electronically, rather than simply filing them away and forgetting about them until it’s time to renew. Not only does this put enterprises in a far better position to negotiate with business partners, understand their business needs and tailor their contracts effectively – but when regulators come calling, they can save thousands of man hours by having at the ready the information they need to hand over, as well as the ability to quickly adjust to regulators’ latest demands.
A good example of this was highlighted for me by Lloyd Alexander, Vice President of Corporate Strategy at Seal Software. A new European Banking Authority consultation paper proposes an updated draft standard for the minimum required information in financial contracts. This is fine for businesses that have the technology to conduct an electronic search through all of their contracts and highlight which ones might require redrafting in the light of the proposed changes; but those that don’t will be faced with the task of manually checking tens or even hundreds of thousands of contracts to find the necessary information.
To date, Seal Software has processed more than 19 million contracts through its Contract Discovery and Analytics Platform, across industries ranging from Healthcare, Financial Services, Media and Law, to Banking, Oil and Gas, and M&A. The company has several million-dollar-plus client relationships, and has grown its staff to nearly 100. It’s also partnered with the likes of IBM, Accenture, KPMG, Axiom, Elevate and Apttus.
Contract discovery and analytics is an essential part of contract lifecycle management; what Seal Software enables companies to do is to locate their contracts within existing systems and gain complete visibility and customizable reviews and analysis through its blend of proprietary technology, machine learning and natural language processing techniques. The solution integrates seamlessly with Salesforce and all the major database management solution providers, including IBM, SAP and Oracle.
Page 1 / 3
Enter Your Comment
Share
