Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I'm a law professor at the University of Washington and faculty director of the interdisciplinary Tech Policy Lab. My affiliations include the Stanford Law School Center for Internet and Society, the Yale Law School Information Society Project, the Electronic Frontier Foundation, the Electronic Information Privacy Center, the Future of Privacy Forum, Robohub, and Without My Consent. You can follow me on Twitter (@rcalo) and read my scholarship at the Social Science Research Network. In addition to Forbes, I've contributed to Wired, the Atlantic, the New York Times, CNN and other news outlets.
Loading...
Loading...
What Ex Machina's Alex Garland Gets Wrong About Artificial Intelligence
Ex Machina opens this weekend. Its director, Alex Garland of 28 Days Later acclaim, appeared on Marketplace  today to discuss the role of artificial intelligence in the film. Garland made a claim that is common but, in my view, flawed: “If you had a machine that said ‘I don’t want you to switch me off,’” he told Ben Johnson, “and you have reason to believe it was telling the truth, you then pretty much immediately have to give it all of the ethical rights and considerations that we give each other.”
We cannot grant AI the full set of rights that apply to humans, at least not without radical changes to our laws, norms, and institutions. Society is set up for people—people who are varied, yes, but who share a set of physical, mental, and perhaps spiritual characteristics that law and ethics more or less assume and rely upon.
Consider what I call the Copy or Vote Paradox, a thought experiment which places two fundamental rights next to one another and asks us which we would like to grant to AI, since we cannot grant both. I lay out the Paradox in my recent paper  Robotics and the Lessons of Cyberlaw :
Imagine, with [Duke law professor] James Boyle, that an artificial intelligence announces it has achieved self-awareness, a claim no one seems able to discredit. Boyle examines the difficulty we might face in shutting this system down and explores some sensible arguments on either side. But why stop there? Say the intelligence has also read Skinner v. Oklahoma, a Supreme Court case that characterizes the right to procreate as “one of the basic civil rights of man.” The machine claims the right to make copies of itself (the only way it knows to replicate). These copies believe they should count for purposes of representation in Congress and, eventually, they demand a pathway to suffrage. Of course, conferring such rights to beings capable of indefinitely self-copying would overwhelm our system of governance. Which right do we take away from this sentient entity, then, the fundamental right to copy, or the deep, democratic right to participate?
There is reason to believe we will never be able to recreate so-called strong artificial intelligence. But assuming that we do, neither the intelligence itself, nor the vehicle for that intelligence, will resemble people as we understand them. With protagonists like Ex Machina’s Ava, Garland is encouraging what law professor Neil Richards and roboticist Bill Smart term the Android Fallacy —which is to say, thinking of a machine as a person because it resembles one superficially. I would not go as far as Richards and Smart to claim that robots are just tools like any other; robots and AI raise many novel questions of law and policy. But I caution the audience of Ex Machina, Chappy, Her, Robot and Frank, and other films about robots and AI to think critically about what conferring human rights upon machines would actually entail.
This is not to say we should avoid such topics. Much closer to the mark is the work on display over the next two days at the fourth annual robotics law and policy conference We Robot  ( #werobot on Twitter Twitter ). In these draft papers, you will see considered reflections by people with training in law, computer science, electrical engineering, and other disciplines on how contemporary and future institutions should think about robots and AI. Another excellent resource is the Open Letter from the Future of Life Institute, signed by dozens of top researchers in a variety of fields, that lays out a research agenda for short and long term research into responsible machine learning.
And it is certainly not to say we should avoid movies like Ex Machina! The reviews are glowing and the issues the film actually raises are fascinating. I, for one, welcome our robot movies.
Enter Your Comment
