Last year, Vision Systems Design launched its first annual Innovators Awards program. The awards were developed to celebrate the disparate and innovative technologies, products , and systems found in the machine vision and image processing industry , and were reviewed by an expert panel of ten third-party judges who were asked to rate the numerous entries that we received based on originality, applicability and market need.
[Native Advertisement]
MORE ARTICLES
Based on the impartial ratings assigned by our judges, awards were assigned in four different levels—Bronze, Silver, Gold and Platinum—to companies or organizations that demonstrated excellence in a product or technology, an application, or in research and development . Submissions were judged on originality, innovation, impact on designers/systems integrators/users, fulfilling a new market need, leveraging a novel technology, and increasing productivity
To celebrate the Innovators Awards program, Vision Systems Design held a reception at the AIA’s Automate trade show and conference in Chicago, IL, USA on March 25, 2015, where many representatives from companies at the show were on hand to accept their awards from Andrew Wilson, Editor-in-Chief of Vision Systems Design.
"For the first time in its 20 year history, our publication has recognized some of the leading-edge developments in vision," said Alan Bergstein, Publisher of Vision Systems Design. "Both the number and quality of the submissions were exceptional, and I would personally like to thank everyone that entered the awards program."
This year’s award’s ceremony in Chicago marked the first year of Vision Systems Design’s Innovators Awards program. Next year – the Second Annual Innovators Awards - will be held in April at the AIA’s Vision Show in Boston, MA, USA. An announcement regarding how to enter next year’s Awards program will be made in September 2015. 
Next page: Bronze level honorees
April 1, 2015
March 18, 2015
March 4, 2015
FROM THE WEB
Please fill out the remaining fields to complete your registration.
First Name
Last Name
Company
Country
By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .
Login Don't have an account? Register now
Login with your social account:
or
Email Address
Join using your social account:
or
First Name
Last Name
Company
Country
By clicking 'Register' you are indicating that you have read and agree with our Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy .
Forgot your password?
Enter your email address below and click Submit to receive password reset instructions via email.
Email Address
Email Sent
An email has been sent to .
Please follow the instructions in the email to change your password.
Welcome to PennWell
Your account has been created and you are now logged in.
You already have an account
It looks like you've already registered with .  Please login below to link your accounts.
Email Address
Please Verify Your Account
Thank you for registering.  An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
Please Verify Your Account
The specified email address, , needs to be verified in order to login.
An email has been sent to with instructions on how to verify your account.
/content/vsd/en/articles/2015/03/vision-system-design-announces-2015-innovators-awards.resendverification.html
