Humanoid resembling the former Governor of Alaska is called YangYang
'She' can change facial expressions, speak and shake hands
Robot is on show at  Global Mobile Internet Conference  in Beijing, China  
571 shares
A humanoid robot named Yangyang is the latest to be revealed in China.
Dressed in a full-length coat, the android can display a wide range of facial expressions and can speak, move its head, and raise its hands to greet people convincingly.
And the machine bears an uncanny - yet apparently accidental - resemblance to former Governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin.
A humanoid robot named Yangyang (pictured left) is the latest to be revealed in China and it bears an uncanny resemblance to former Governor of Alaska, Sarah Palin (right)
Yangyang is one of a number of impressively realistic robots to be unveiled at the Global Mobile Internet Conference (GMIC) 2015 in Beijing, China.
The android was produced jointly by China's Shanghai Yangyang Intelligent Robot Science Service Centre and renowned Japanese robotics professor Hiroshi Ishiguro, who has created some of the world’s most eerily lifelike androids.
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
Yangyang was created with the aim of popularising robotics among the young and its resemblance to Sarah Palin seems to be coincidental.
'She' is not the first robot to resemble a famous human, however.
Yangyang (pictured) is one of a number of impressively realistic robots to be unveiled at the Global Mobile Internet Conference (GMIC) 2015 in Beijing, China. A number of tiny motors beneath its rubbery skin enable it to alter its facial expressions (pictured)
 Dressed in a full-length coat, the android can display a wide range of facial expressions and can speak, move its head, and raise its hands to greet people convincingly (pictured)
An early version of a machine called Han made headlines because it was sculpted to look like Albert Einstein, complete with a bushy moustache and a shock of white hair.
The Einstein humanoid made facial expressions by using multiple motors, which whirred into action and subtly adjusted multiple points of articulation around his mouth and brown eyes.
The latest iteration of Han can mimic expressions, hold simple conversations and smile, wink, frown and even act drunk, was also shown off at another conference taking place in Hong Kong.
Around 40 motors control its face to form delicate facial expressions, according to its creators, US-based Hanson Robotics.
The android (pictured) was produced jointly by China's Shanghai Yangyang Intelligent Robot Science Service Centre and renowned Japanese robotics professor Hiroshi Ishiguro, who has created some of the world’s most eerily lifelike androids
Grace Copplestone, manager at the firm, said: '[Han] has cameras on his eyes and on his chest, which allow him to recognise people's face, not only that, but recognise their gender, their age, whether they are happy or sad, and that makes him very exciting for places like hotels for example, where you need to appreciate the customers in front of you and react accordingly.' 
It uses skin similar to Yangyang's, made from a rubbery material enabling it to resemble human flesh.
This is a patented material called Frubber, which is short for flesh rubber.
Yangyang (pictured) has been created with the aim of popularising robotics among the young and her resemblance to Sarah Palin seems to be coincidental
A 'male' robot called Han (pictured left and right) that can mimic expressions, hold simple conversations and smile, wink, frown and even act drunk, was also shown off at another conference taking place in Hong Kong
It contains realistic pores that measure four to 40 nanometers across - there are 10 million nanometers in one centimetre.
Ms Copplestone envisages that Han could one day work in hospitality, such as manning reception desks of hotels, as well as in casinos, theme parks and museums. 
But it could also be used by doctors as realistic mannequins, or care for elderly patients.
 'We believe a human face on a robot makes it far more approachable, and efficient, and effective in caring for older people,' she said.
Japanese robotic scientist Hiroshi Ishiguro (right) poses next to girl android robot named Kodomoroid (left) who can read the news without stumbling once and recited complex tongue-twisters glibly in a demonstration. 'She' can move her lips in time with a voice over, blink and sway
Around 40 motors control Han's face to form delicate facial expressions, according to 'his' creators, US-based Hanson Robotics. His skin is made from a patented material called Frubber, which is short for flesh rubber
ANDROID CLONE OF  TV PRESENTER BECOMES FIRST TO HOST SHOW
Earlier this month a cross-dressing Japanese television star's robotic clone has made its 'unnervingly real' on-screen debut to become the first android to host its own show.
Japanese engineers pushed the clone of transvestite entertainer Matsuko Deluxe into the limelight.
Mr Deluxe, who is popular in Japan for his frankness, said it was 'fascinating' come face-to-face with his lookalike.
'I see myself as other people see me for the first time, and it was a significant moment,' he said.
Working with world-famous roboticist Hiroshi Ishiguro, who also created YangYang, Japan’s top advertising agency, Dentsu dreamed up the idea to clone an exact android copy of the entertainer.
A spokesman for the agency said: 'Artists and entertainers themselves aren’t yet seen as content that can be combined with technology, but the Dentsu group believes the need to develop android entertainers will grow.'
Performing with natural movements, while voiced and controlled remotely by a voice impersonator, the robot was put through its paces in front of an incredulous audience for the first time on Nippon TV.
For now, the Matsukoroid robot is controlled by an human operator,but with 600 stock 'Deluxe' phases it can use in reply to voice and face recognition, it's hoped the Matsukoroid will be free of its operator by the end of the series as it learns on the job.
Share or comment on this article
571
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
