Project Tango: Google to sell tech to 3D-scan the world this year
Kit could be used for augmented reality and helping make places accessible for people with sight problems
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
Project Tango, Google’s 3D-scanning camera, has graduated from Google’s experimental lab and is on its way to the real world.
The scanner began as a concept for a smartphone which would scan the world around it in 3D. It could then make that into a model that could be used for augmented reality or direct people to important things.
The technology could eventually be used for mapping out the dimensions of a home before buying furniture, or giving easy directions around a new building, Google says. It could also help visually impaired people by providing assistance for walking around.
It could eventually be integrated into games, too, allowing children to play hide and seek with animated characters or changing familiar locations into the sites of other animations.
It has now moved out of Google’s experimental Advanced Technology and Projects (ATAP) division, and into a  “new home within Google”.
In a Google+ post announcing the move, ATAP said: “We're excited about the continued commitment to developing the technology for our users  — we wish our fellow pirates fair winds and following seas.”
The move is likely to indicate that the technology could be on its way into consumer devices. Google is said to be working with LG to make a version of the technology that people can buy ready for release some time this year.
The Project Tango Development Kit allows other engineers to make apps using the technology. That has been used in projects such as Target’s augmented reality app , which scanned shop shelves and covered them in virtual snow.
That runs on a special tablet that was made for developers to try out the kit. It has also been released in a device the size of a phone.
The technology tracks people through a combination of “advanced computer vision, image processing and specialized sensors”, according to the project’s official page . It is built into the back of a tablet, which can show the results on the front.
News
Life and Style
i100
News
people
Sport
Life and Style
Life and Style
nfl
News
2
 
'We will not sit down with Nicola Sturgeon'
In an exclusive interview, Ed Balls says he won't negotiate his first Budget with SNP MPs - even if Labour need their votes to secure its passage
How ordinary Britons celebrated VE Day
Our perception of VE Day usually involves crowds of giddy Britons casting off the shackles of war with gay abandon. The truth was more nuanced
Typefaces still matter in the digital age
A new typeface once took years to create, now thousands are available at the click of a drop-down menu. So why do most of us still rely on the old classics, asks Meg Carter?
'Missing link' between Earth's two life-forms found
New microbial species tells us something about our dark past, say scientists
Pan Am Experience: A 'flight' back to the 70s
Tim Walker checks in and checks out a four-hour journey with a difference
Humans aren't alone in indulging in politics
Voting, mutual back-scratching, coups and charismatic leaders - it's everywhere in the animal world
Crisp sales are in decline
As a nation we're filling up on popcorn and pitta chips and forsaking their potato-based predecessors
Ronald McDonald the muse
A new wave of artists is taking inspiration from the fast food chain
13 best picnic blankets
Dine al fresco without the grass stains and damp bottoms with something from our pick of picnic rugs
Barcelona vs Bayern Munich player ratings
Lionel Messi scores twice - but does he score highest in our ratings?
Explosive batsman who sets the range for Kiwis' big guns
Martin Guptill has smashed early runs for Derbyshire and tells Richard Edwards to expect more from the 'freakish' Brendon McCullum and his buoyant team during their tour of England
Miliband's unlikely journey from hapless geek to heart-throb
He was meant to be Labour's biggest handicap - but has become almost an asset
On the margins
From Militant Elvis to Women's Equality: a guide to the underdogs standing in the election
'This is the battle of young Egypt for the future of our country'
Ex-Muslim Brotherhood minister Amr Darrag still believes the opposition can rid Egypt of its military regime and replace it with 'moderate' Islamic rule, he tells Robert Fisk
Why patients must rely less on doctors
Improving our own health is the 'blockbuster drug of the century'
