Connect
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I am a CISSP and author of "When Gadgets Betray Us: The Dark Side of our Infatuation with New Technologies." I am featured in the history-of-hacking documentary, Code2600. As an award-winning journalist, I have been writing about information security for more than 15 years for sites including ZDNet, CNET, CBS News, PC World and Security Ledger.
Increasingly smart cars (and smart homes) are becoming the center of our digital lives. At a minimum you want to play your music where ever you go, and control other aspects of personal comfort such as lighting and temperature. The convenience of the Internet of Things means your personal comfort zone can follow you most anywhere, even outside of your own car or house. But most of us do not fully understand the security consequences of having all our logins and passwords stored inside external devices we may possess even if only temporarily.
“When I get a rental car,” said David Miller, Chief Security Officer for Covisint , “the last thing I do is pair my phone. It downloads all my contacts because that’s what it wants to do. In most rental cars you can go in and –if somebody’s paired with it—see their contacts.”
Unlike most people today Miller is thinking ahead to what happens next. “I spend all this time connecting my vehicle to my whole life,” he said, “and then in five years I sell it – how do I disconnect it from my whole life? I don’t want the guy who buys [my car] to be able to see my Facebook friends, so you have to de-provision. Security guys are much more interested in the security vulnerabilities around de-provisioning than provisioning.”
Miller’s company, Covisint, created by GM, Ford, and the former DaimlerChrysler, connects the automakers back end systems to a variety of supply chain vendors through the use of a single login and password. “We provide a cloud service that connects people and things with information that are external and separate from them.” Lately Covisint has taken that idea and applied it to the Internet of Things.
“Cars are interesting things,” Miller said. “One reason they are different from phones … nobody goes into a restaurant and as they walk in hands their phone to a valet and says “Here’s my phone.” Yet we do that with cars all the time. We leave them in extremely insecure places. We actually hand the keys to be people we don’t know. The connected car is going have my IDs and passwords – I don’t want any car to have that.”
Same is true with connected homes, Miller said — how do you de-provision each device when the time comes? “If I sell my house that has all kinds of connected thermostats and such, all customized to me, how do I disconnect that from my life?” he asked. “How do say I don’t want to get Facebook posts that tell me someone was in my house when it’s not my house anymore?”
It is Miller’s belief that having all these devices connect directly to each other is a security problem. “Instead of me buying something and when I bring it into my house, I turn it on, instead of it seeking out all the things it can connect to, and determining what it can control, [the device] presents itself to a centralized Identity hub and I as the owner go in and provisioned that thing into my life. I decide whether it can talk to my light bulbs or my TV.”
What Miller is trying to do is start a conversation around moving the credentials off the device, and not give the individual device all sorts of capabilities to do things. “We support the ability to ask permission,” he explained. “The model is this: The device says I would like to turn on this light and the Cloud says ‘I’ll decide whether that light should go on or not.’” There are advantages to this, he said. For example, you can group devices logically, so, when you need to sell your car or house, you just uncheck the group that includes everything in your house. Those devices will no longer be able to connect to your life.
Page 1 / 2
Enter Your Comment
Share
