Close ×
This web site uses cookies to improve your experience. By viewing our content, you are accepting the use of cookies. To find out more and change your cookie settings, please view our cookie policy .
Microsoft's intelligent assistant, Cortana, is coming to iOS and Android devices, according to a Reuters report published today .
But don't expect Siri to step aside right away. The Reuters report, based on interviews with Eric Horvitz, managing director of Microsoft Research, and unnamed sources, is frustratingly vague about the timeframe for the appearance of Cortana in standalone apps on non-Windows platforms.
Horvitz told Reuters that technology from an artificial intelligence project codenamed Einstein, "will play a central role in the next roll out of Cortana, which we are working on now for the fall time frame." The standalone apps for iOS and Android are due "later," according to Reuters.
That timetable shouldn't really be a surprise -- it aligns neatly with the planned commercial availability of Windows 10.
Cortana, which debuted on Windows phones last year, has already appeared in preview releases of Windows 10, taking over the search box in the taskbar.
A video posted last week at a site for Microsoft enthusiasts shows Cortana integrated into the Spartan browser, which is due to debut in the next preview release of Windows 10.
The world's three largest providers of computing platforms -- Apple, Google, and Microsoft -- are all working feverishly to bring this sort of capability to their customers.
Apple's Siri is the oldest of the bunch, capable of answering questions (with search results from Microsoft's Bing) as well as setting appointments, taking notes, and sending emails or texts. Apple has no announced plans to offer Siri on any platforms other than its own mobile devices.
What's Hot on ZDNet
On Android phones, Google Now offers personal assistance without the assistant, offering answers to spoken questions (using Google Search, naturally) and more ambitiously attempting to offer advice and information in the form of Google Now cards, before you even know you need it.
Google Now is also available on iOS (as part of the Google Search app) and in the Chrome browser. Using Google Now requires signing in to a Google account, where the underlying engine has full access to the contents of your Google history, including Gmail and Google Calendar events.
The promised updates to Cortana due this fall try to accomplish the same tasks as Google Now, without the dependence on Google services, a "breakthrough in usefulness."
Microsoft's approach also attempts to sidestep privacy concerns that some have with Google's services.
Bringing Cortana to other platforms is part of a much larger strategy in Satya Nadella's Microsoft, to make Microsoft services platform-agnostic and less dependent on Windows. That's been the impetus for a new wave of business-focused iOS apps and a matching collection of Android apps , including flagship apps like Outlook and Office .
Disclosure
Ed Bott is a freelance technical journalist and book author. All work that Ed does is on a contractual basis.Since 1994, Ed has written more than 25 books about Microsoft Windows and Office. Along with various co-authors, Ed is completely responsible for the content of the books he writes. As a key part of his contractual relationship with publishers, he gives them permission to print and distribute the content he writes and to pay him a royalty based on the actual sales of those books. Ed's books have been distributed under several imprints: Que Publishing (a division of Pearson Education); Microsoft Press (with production and distribution by O'Reilly), and Fair Trade Digital Exchange, where he was briefly a partner. On occasion, Ed accepts consulting assignments. In recent years, he has worked as an expert witness in cases where his experience and knowledge of Microsoft and Microsoft Windows have been useful. In each such case, his compensation is on an hourly basis, and he is hired as a witness, not an advocate. Ed sometimes receive fees and/or travel expenses for live speeches and webinars from companies and organizations. Acceptance of these fees does not constitute an endorsement of the company's products. Ed does not own stock or have any other financial interest in Microsoft or any other software company. He owns 500 shares of stock in EMC Corporation, which was purchased before the company's acquisition of VMware. In addition, he owns 350 shares of stock in Intel Corporation, purchased more than seven years ago. All stocks are held in retirement accounts for long-term growth. Ed does not accept gifts from companies he covers. All hardware products he writes about are purchased with his own funds or are review units covered under formal loan agreements and are returned after the review is complete.
Kick off your day with ZDNet's daily email newsletter . It's the freshest tech news and opinion, served hot. Get it.
Join the discussion
Related Stories
The best of ZDNet, delivered
You have been successfully signed up. To sign up for more newsletters or to manage your account, visit the Newsletter Subscription Center .
Subscription failed.
