Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I've lived and breathed the Semiconductor and Computing industries for over 18 years as a Field Sales Engineer and Global Account Manager for private rep organizations, Industrial Distributors, System Integrators and factory-direct at leading Silicon Valley OEMs. In tandem, I've spent well over a decade as a journalist in the Computing industry and its adjacent markets. I know what it's like to sweat long hours at a start-up company, running my own corner of the Tech web at HotHardware.com , and I've rolled up my sleeves in the engineering labs and board rooms of big brand manufacturers, looking for solutions to more powerful, elegant designs. In my years there has been one constant; relentless, magnificent advancement and the innovations it brings. Let’s explore, shall we?  Follow me on Google+ or Twitter . Check out HotHardware.com for a breath on the cutting-edge, or tip me a scoop at: dave(at)hothardware.com
3/31/2015 @ 4:04PM
11,526 views
Amazon And IBM Just Kicked The Internet Of Things Into High Gear
The IoT or the “Internet Of Things” seems to be all the rage these days, from smart home automation and security devices, to connected, autonomous vehicles. However, what’s key about this new trend in technology is not only the ideas for better, smarter devices that are born from this growth market, but also how companies actually execute to make these things really useful in our day-to-day lives. Industry titans like Intel and Google have already made some advances in delivering products that begin to build the framework of the IOT, and today two more major league players just stepped into the arena.
Amazon and IBM offered a couple of notable announcements today, both of which highlight the infrastructure that needs to be in place to support the IOT in the first place. First, let’s look at Amazon’s new Dash Button .
Amazon’s Dash buttons will allow you re-order your Tide… or Dash, with one click.
Yep, you guessed it. Amazon has figured out a way to make your dumb home appliances smart by engineering home WiFi-connected product buttons that can be configured for reordering online or through a smartphone app, so when you’re starting to run out, all you do is hit a button and an order is kicked off to Amazon. Brilliant! You say. Well, truth told the bright idea of smart appliances that re-order groceries and other provisions for you is nothing new. However, what Amazon has achieved here, along with the help of latest in enabling technologies in wireless connectivity and low power microcontrollers, is essentially a field retrofit of existing devices that will now be able to phone back home to good ol’ Amazon to place orders for your most frequent consumables. It is brilliant, actually, though long-term the technology just needs to be integrated into appliances or other devices, I think. These little band-aide buttons do get us from no connectivity to connectedness however, because no one is going to rip out a washing machine or refrigerator, coffee maker etc, just so they can more easily re-order consumables. You have to hand it to Amazon for thinking outside the box with this one – literally and figuratively.
IBM’s Watson Supercomputer – Credit: Wikimedia
Then there’s IBM’s announcement of their new $3 billion dollar investment over the next four years in their new IoT division. Big Blue will be working on platform infrastructure for a bunch of little things all talking over the internet. It almost sounds funny. However, “big data” is being generated in massive amounts from all these connected things. And you can be sure data centers to handle the requests as well as process the analytics workload required for improvements in services and efficiency, will have huge demand over the next few years. “Our knowledge of the world grows with every connected sensor and device, but too often we are not acting on it, even when we know we can ensure a better result,” notes Bob Picciano, Senior Vice President, IBM Analytics.
It’s all coming into focus a little more each day and these two announcements today just strike me as a sign of things to come; as if the floodgates will soon open up with new technologies and capabilities that take the IoT from what sounds like a cool concept, to real-world usefulness in our every day lives.
I’m not sure I’m ready for my every move and need to be tracked, calculated and eventually marketed to, but I think we were already there a while ago anyway, so we might as well embrace it. Let’s just hope the good folks in the security sector have the chops to lock it all down soon too.
Enter Your Comment
Share
