Putting the User in the Driver’s Seat of the Connected Car Skip To: Start of Article.
Visually Open Nav.
Submit
Author: J. Kim Fennell, deCarta. J. Kim Fennell, deCarta
Putting the User in the Driver’s Seat of the Connected Car
Courtesy of Mojio
The auto industry is racing to deliver on a grand vision for developing the “Connected Car” in which location technologies are integrated with relevant content to deliver a uniquely personalized online driving experience designed for those behind the wheel, as opposed to stationary users.
Auto industry suppliers and telematics service providers recognize a huge opportunity to cash in on this coming generation of connected cars. A new survey of 6,000 drivers by Nielsen found that 26% of connected car drivers already connect to the Internet every time they get in their vehicles, and an impressive 88% consider Internet-enabled navigation to be important or very important.
Today’s average high-end car runs roughly seven times more software code than a Boeing 787, according to an industry report in the McKinsey Quarterly . But with all that software on board, automakers and app developers are wary of platforms such as Google’s Android Auto, Apples CarPlay or Microsoft Sync. If any single platform comes to dominate the market, it will thus control the driver experience. In order to succeed on its own terms, the auto industry will have to rethink location-awareness in its cars to deliver a much more holistic driver-centric experience.
The typical in-car embedded, onboard navigation applications are way out of step with the actual needs of drivers. They are expensive and yet are woefully inferior in content and capabilities from what’s on a typical mobile phone. The pre-loaded map and POI data is often already a year old at time of sale and it gets further out of date quickly. Worse, being non-connected, it lacks the real time information and services drivers prefer such as traffic flow and incidents, parking availability, gas price, and advanced real time search.
As a result, drivers have increasingly begun to simply use what’s on their smartphones in a cradle or in their hand. Of course that’s not safe and worse, the apps are not designed well for a user moving at 70 mph down the highway.
Some auto OEMs have then followed with the rather unimaginative approach of simply replicating what’s on the smartphone and linking it to the 7 inch infotainment unit in the dashboard. That’s a bit better, but not enough.
The key point is that  location-based applications should behave differently if you’re driving to a coffee shop as opposed to sitting inside a coffee shop. There are two very real problems: 1) the various apps such as navigation, search, traffic, and parking are not integrated and so drivers are having to open and close multiple apps to get all that they need; and 2) it’s simply not safe to do this while driving.
The right solution is to have location-based apps seamlessly integrated, that are context aware and work for the driver, providing the right information at the right time and making choices for the driver based on where they are, and where they need to get to — and on their predetermined preferences.
Several startups have released new low-cost, do-it-yourself Internet connectivity devices that can be inserted into the onboard diagnostics port, which serves as a car’s computer brain. A company called Automatic Link helps motorists become more fuel efficient, while Metromile offers insurance discounts based on driving habits. Mojio seeks to create an open source platform for smart-car apps offering real-time traffic alerts, automated parking payments and remote battery replacements.
The true driver-centric experience should actually be designed around a driver’s situation, not adapted from the smartphone mapping experience. The next phase of in-car services will seamlessly combine new applications and useful content to provide smart services for drivers — without the distraction of trying to view disconnected phone-based apps. Location-based services will be adapted to enable the car to work for the driver.
The new driver-centric experience will include such innovations as voice-based commands; search-along-a-route; optimum route calculations based on combining traffic data with road and weather conditions; and context-awareness that incorporates the driver’s personal preferences such as favorite parking lots, gas stations, coffee shops, and restaurants.
The connected car platform will integrate all these preferences with real-time data about traffic jams, road work or detours, gas prices, weather patterns, and other changing variables along the route. Local search and navigation tools will integrate these factors to intelligently serve each driver, based on a specific location and direction of travel.
Such a vision for a driver-centric experience differs from the smartphone experience because the content and services are combined into a natural flow of information, rather than remaining separate applications that do not share any logical context to help improve results.
For example, one of the most common complaints heard about navigation systems is that the search engine shows the driver results that are often behind them or takes them through lengthy detours off their route. This is because general-purpose search engines like Google only do a “point-radius” search and will therefore show the closest gas station based on Euclidian distance (as the crow flies). However, what a driver on the highway wants is the closest result in front of them and/or within a certain deviation time or distance off their route. This is possible with local search engines that have true “Search Along a Route” capabilities (very few do today).
Drivers should also be able to have the car’s location-based services system find available parking spaces within their preferred price range near their destinations from within the navigation application. Likewise, any changes in traffic flows or traffic accidents should be detected every 2-3 minutes by the location-based system which should recalculate ETAs and re-route the driver and at the same time update those who are expecting them at their destination.
“The car of the future will be connected — able not only to monitor, in real time, its own working parts and the safety of conditions around it but also to communicate with other vehicles and with an increasingly intelligent roadway infrastructure,” writes Russell Hensley, a McKinsey principal based in the Detroit office. “These features will be must-haves for all cars, which will become less like metal boxes and more like integrators of multiple technologies, productive data centers—and, ultimately, components of a larger mobility network.”
Certain obstacles remain to realize this vision, such as drivers losing Internet connections in underground parking garages or on remote rural roads. Without continuous connectivity, it’s impossible to sync up location-based services with mapping content. However, there are solutions to this too. Most auto OEMs want the best of both worlds for their drivers. They want online real time information while connected, but in the case of a lost signal, the  location-based services system should gracefully shift to “onboard” systems and this shift will be transparent to drivers.
The ability to move back and forth between a connected system and unconnected system is quite difficult to do to keep the same map and route current — but some location-based services platform providers have cracked the code on that.’
Industry analysts predict the advent of a new “meta-manager” that will coordinate various subordinate location apps. This meta-manager software control will scan the car’s functional information systems to integrate any relevant data in a timely way. For instance, drivers may stipulate they are searching for a fast-food meal on their trip, but only within a 10-minute detour of their current route and no further.
The grand plan for connected cars involves an integrated, driver-centric journey from discovery to destination. As envisioned, users will be able to plan out and map their routes on a tablet at home, then navigate the trip with an in-car system, before finally using maps on their phones to walk the final distance to their destinations. In this way, the  location-based system will finally revolve around the driver, not the other way around.
J. Kim Fennell is the President and Chief Executive Officer of deCarta.
308
View comments
More Uncategorized
Submit
 
