Aim higher, reach further.
Get the Wall Street Journal $12 for 12 weeks. Subscribe Now
http://www.wsj.com/articles/invasion-of-the-friendly-movie-robots-1424976398
183
126
Invasion of the Friendly Movie Robots
‘Chappie’ and ‘Ex Machina’ will explore artificial intelligence in the coming weeks, with more movies to follow
Watch a film clip from "Chappie," starring Sharlto Copley, Ninja and Jose Pablo Cantillo. Photo/Video: Sony Pictures
By
Robots are becoming more of a reality in everyday life, and movies have started to overhaul their depiction of them. They’re gentler, friendlier and often better-looking.
Yet the question remains: Could the smart machines we are inventing rise up against us and obliterate humanity? Or could they become loyal, loving companions and world-saving tools? Two new movies, “Chappie” (March 6) and “Ex Machina” (April 10) will explore artificial intelligence in the coming weeks, with more projects to follow.
ENLARGE
Alicia Vikander in ‘Ex Machina’ Photo: A24 Films
A little bit “RoboCop,” with a dash of “Short Circuit” and even “Pinocchio,” “Chappie” is hopeful about the place that robots and advanced computers might take us. This is despite the history of its South African writer-director Neill Blomkamp, who highlighted society’s darker impulses in his two prior films, “District 9” and “Elysium.” His next project: a new movie in the “Alien” franchise.
“To me it’s not a foregone conclusion that [supersmart technology] is going to be evil and it’s going to immediately launch the nukes,” Mr. Blomkamp says. “Why not have the robot be more humane than the humans?”
In “Ex Machina,” a reclusive entrepreneur (Oscar Isaac) has built a female robot that he treats poorly. He summons a young employee (Domhnall Gleeson) to his lair to administer a “Turing test” to his creation and see if her consciousness is human. His fantasy doesn’t work as he’d planned. Two big-franchise sequels due later this year, “Terminator Genisys” and “Avengers: Age of Ultron,” feature super-intelligent computer systems with a mind to eradicate humans.
ENLARGE
‘Marvel's Avengers: Age Of Ultron’ Photo: Marvel
“There’s an argument to be made that all of science fiction can be boiled down to a series of warnings about unintended consequences,” says Chris Barsanti, author of the 2014 book The Sci-Fi Movie Guide, which catalogs nearly 1,000 films. “Because robots are anthropomorphized, we see them as either these saviors and friends—or as villains here to kill us.”
Scientists are paying attention to these questions. Physicist Stephen Hawking recently said uncontrolled artificial intelligence could “spell the end of the human race.” This from a 73-year-old man who has survived amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), communicating with a robotic voice and a form of artificial-intelligence technology.
ENLARGE
Chappie Photo: Sony Pictures
“Chappie” is set in a near-future version of Johannesburg, where law-enforcement robots patrol violent streets along with human cops. An earnest programmer at the company that makes the robots (Dev Patel from “Slumdog Millionaire”) has written code that could give the robots consciousness, making them self-aware and able to learn. The CEO thinks the upgrade won’t be good for business. (She’s played by Sigourney Weaver, who dealt with a malevolent android crew member in “Alien”). But the programmer manages to borrow a robot, and with a few keystrokes he turns it into a conscious being with a blank brain, innocent as a baby and eager to understand our world. He encounters human influences, good and evil, and eventually, like Pinocchio, Chappie needs to make some moral choices.
Related Reading
ENLARGE
Yul Bryinner in ‘Westworld.’ Photo: Ronald Grant/Everett Collection
Where did moviemakers—and concerned scientists—get the idea that supersmart AI might be humanity’s “biggest existential threat,” as entrepreneur Elon Musk speculated last fall?
From human history, for starters. “In every era in history, the dominant culture comes in and wipes out the primitive culture,” says Patrick Lussier, co-screenwriter of “Terminator Genisys,” which opens in July. If machines are smarter than us, what’s to stop them from hurting people?
Of course, in movies, it’s not usually the technology that starts the fight, says “Genisys” co-writer Laeta Kalogridis. “It isn’t usually the case that robots or machine intelligence automatically want to destroy us. In “2001,” HAL only became destructive after he was lied to. In the first “Alien,” Ash, the malevolent android, is getting conflicting orders from humans. In ‘Terminator,’ when Skynet becomes self-aware, humanity panics.
We tend to create things, then in fear try to kill or abandon them. That was the story in Mary Shelley’s 1818 novel “Frankenstein,” and in Ridley Scott’s 1982 film “Blade Runner.,” from a short story by Philip K. Dick, “Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?” Steven Spielberg took the 1969 Brian Aldiss short story “Super-Toys Last All Summer,” about a synthetic boy abandoned by his mother, and melded it with the Pinocchio tale in his 2001 robot film “A.I.”
ENLARGE
Ally Sheedy with Number 5 in ‘Short Circuit,’ 1986. Photo: TriStar Pictures/Everett Collection
Mr. Barsanti thinks cinematic fears of frightening new technologies do soften, gradually. Early movies about the Internet were scary, such as “The Net”’ and “The Matrix.” In “Her,’ an operating system becomes a romantic interest. “It’s all really about the inevitability of technology,” he says. “In a way, science fiction is trying to prepare us for the future.”
Robots also look different now. Early screen robots, from the “Danger, Will Robinson” one on TV’s “Lost in Space” to C-3PO in “Star Wars,” were actors in costume. Even R2-D2 had a guy inside, 3-foot-8 Kenny Baker. The three waist-high drones in the 1972 movie “Silent Running” were inhabited by legless actors. The 1986 comedy “Short Circuit,” about a military robot suddenly given a personality, featured a screwed-together mechanical robot, operated like a motorized puppet. (Critic Roger Ebert said it was the best actor in the movie.)
ENLARGE
Kenny Baker as R2D2 and Anthony Daniels, as C-3PO in ‘Star Wars: Episode III- Revenge of the Sith.’ Photo: 20th Century Fox/Everett Collection
Lately, movie robots have been computer-animated, sometimes with the input of human actors. Chappie is played by Sharlto Copley, who during filming wore a skintight gray outfit and acted his part normally in all the scenes. Digital-effects artists essentially painted the computer-animated character over his acting. Mr. Blomkamp calls it “just an extreme form of makeup. Instead of two hours in the morning for wardrobe and makeup, it’s one year after the film is shot. What’s the difference?”
Real robots lag behind the cinematic fantasies but are making strides. Japanese company SoftBank this month introduced a four-foot-tall household robot called Pepper that can read human emotions via face recognition and speak multiple languages. Elsewhere in Japan, robotics experts are building eerily lifelike female androids. Researchers are prototyping robots to help in the care of the elderly , to provide companionship or physical tests—a scenario the 2012 film “Robot & Frank” explored. Boston Dynamics recently introduced a human-shaped robot named Atlas that walks on two legs. Boston Dynamics’ BigDog is a four-legged robot made for carrying loads in military applications. But whatever shape technology takes, people will humanize it.
ENLARGE
A Terminator in ‘Terminator Genisys’ Photo: Paramount Pictures
“We just project on everything. I name my GPS. Some people say ‘my car loves me. ‘ We kind of want to make things sentient,” says Ken Salisbury, a Stanford University professor who specializes in robotics.
Plenty of the advanced technologies shown in artificial-intelligence movies do remain far-fetched. Last year in “Transcendence,” Johnny Depp uploaded his “consciousness” to the Internet, then went power-mad and had to choose whether to dominate or save the planet. There’s uploading human “consciousness” from human brains to robots in “Chappie” too, essentially the complete transfer of a person’s memories, personality and soul. In real life, scientists don’t even know what that would mean.
Related Video
Autonomous robots, developed in the labs of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, combine sophisticated movement and advanced computing power. The BakeBot can bake a giant cookie from scratch. Photo: MIT Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab
“We don’t have any real idea about what consciousness is, how to create it, whether a machine would be conscious,” says Stuart Russell, director of the Center for Intelligent Systems at the University of California, Berkeley. Prosthetic limbs can be controlled by brain signals, and it’s imaginable that memory signals someday could be stored outside the brain. “But that still doesn’t get you to consciousness,” he says. “If you gave me a trillion dollars [to find a way], I’d have to give it back, because there’s no plausible engineering path.”
He admits, though, that the idea of transferring one’s heart and soul into a machine has cinematic advantages. “The reason you want a machine to be conscious,” he says, “is so you can have a romantic subplot.”
Write to Don Steinberg at don.steinberg@wsj.com
183
126
Pass a law calling for life imprisonment for the CEO and board or directors of any company selling a robot that intentionally takes a human life. Then the market will find a solution to the pressing problem of robots run amok. Robots may not respond to incentives, but those who make them do.
The only way humanity will overcome the vastness of space and the limitation imposed on space travel by the speed of light is to transfer human consciousness into machines - or give way to conscious machines that can make the centuries-long journeys between the stars.
I realize it's only coincidence, but the confluence of our ability to detect thousands of extra-solar planets, including some in the "zone of life" around a number of stars, and our soon to be achieved ability to create "conscious" machine life, is certainly fortuitous.
Personally , I suspect that there are a number of interstellar civilizations taking bets on whether or not we make it out of our solar system. The Odds looked much better about 25 years ago.
A character in the novel 2001 remarked that it will always be cheaper to grow organic brains with unskilled labor.
I am disappointed, though not surprised, that the author missed the 1970 movie "Colossus: the Forbin Project" as the ur-film in the computer threatens world destruction tradition.
For a slightly different take on robot/human interaction, see this Robin Williams vehicle --  Bicentennial Man (1999) - IMDb
The reference to Robot and Frank was good -- an interesting twist on the uses of robots besides for patient care --  Robot & Frank (2012) - IMDb
For a dose of reality on how this is being worked on NOW - the beginning of the Neuro tech wave, after Digital and Bio, that is the direct connection of the human brain to machines, including transferring thoughts from brain to brain, implanting learning into brains, and implanting artificial memories into brains - lab experiments being done now- check out the work of Dr. Eric Leuthardt of the Washington University Neuroscience Dept.  Downloading the complete contents of the brain is probably only 10 to 15 years away.  You have been warned.
@Andrew Limanni Throttle back there partner. We don't even have flying cars yet, and I don't mean the ones with wings. Everything you have described is about 50 to a hundred years from now if we don't destroy ourselves first. If anything, I envision "Positronic"{1} brains being cooked up like bread out of a replicator, or todays version of a 3D printer. Flash programing would be next. But before any of that is going to happen, there still is loads of work to be done on structure, protocols, and the interactions of higher, and lower functions, as well as bandwidth and throughput. Science might be able to transplant the brain of a nematode now, but the human brain is orders of magnitude larger, like the sky is just as many galaxies as there are grains of sand on the worlds beaches. Lets not jump, until we can walk...
({1}"I Robot", Isaac Asimov.)
@Bryan Smith   @Andrew Limanni  Sorry, I hate to be a bearer of bad news, at least for you, but this is probably coming SOONER rather than later - some researchers in the field (as of 2 weeks ago at research presentations) think total downloading (like the movie Strange Days) is only 5-7 years away - there is even a project financed by a Russian billionaire to do this to create physical immortality - which is exactly what it would do.  Download before death or make backup copies or multiple copies in handy robots/clone to live multiple lives - and merge memories together later.
1. Implanting artificial memories is already being done in the lab as of 2 weeks ago.
2. Brain to brain communication is being done in the lab on an ongoing basis.
3. Implanting learning has been done.
By the way, direct brain-machine interfaces have been done primitively for years now, for paraplegics.  Even the next generation computer glasses shown at CES 2014 basically do this.
"Lately, movie robots have been computer-animated..."
See.  Robots creating more robots.  They are propagating.  Soon they will over-run us.  Flee to Argentina before it is too late!  Wait, cancel that.  With the political upheaval, Argentina is no longer safe.  Flee to China.  Try to blend in. Learn to use chopsticks.  Machines hate that because they cannot use them.
"Real robots are behind the cinematic fantasies..."
See. Even the author of this piece admits what is going on.  The machines use the cinema to condition us so we will be pliable when they take over.  Flee to Belize before it is too late!
We are doomed!  The machines have already declared war on carbon using brain dead liberal zombies as their mouthpiece.  Don't you see?  WE are carbon based life forms.  This is a war on US!  Flee to the Amazon before it is too late.
"Those aren't your memories, they're somebody else's. They're Tyrell's niece's. OK , bad joke, I'm sorry." - Deckard
Show More Archives
Copyright ©2015 Dow Jones & Company , Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2014 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved
