DeepFace uses technology designed by an Israeli startup called face.com 
Researchers used the software to build a 3D model of a face from a photo
This model was rotated so an algorithm could begin searching for a match
After creating a model, the team used a neural network that had been trained on a database of 4,000 faces across 4 million images
Creators claim DeepFace finds a matching face with 97.25% accuracy
It is currently unavailable to users in the European Union
But, American users have reported getting access to the feature this week 
1.5k shares
Uploading dozens of photos and tagging each one on Facebook can be tedious, and it appears the social network knows this. 
It recently created an algorithm that  identifies faces 'as accurately as a human' and offers tag suggestions which the user can accept, or reject. 
The technology - called DeepFace - was first showcased last March, but the site has now started rolling out the automatic tagging tool to select users. 
Scroll down for video 
Facebook's DeepFace technology uses a 3D model to virtually rotate faces so that are facing the camera. Image (a) shows the original image, and (g) shows the final, corrected version which the software then attempts to recognise
DeepFace uses technology designed by an Israeli startup called face.com. 
Facebook bought the startup in 2013 and developed the facial recognition tool with support from face.com's Yaniv Taigman at its Artificial Intelligence lab. 
RELATED ARTICLES
1.5k shares
The researchers used the software to build a 3D model of a face from a photo that can be rotated into the best position for an algorithm to begin searching for a match.   
TRAINING THE DEEPFACE TOOL
DeepFace uses technology designed by an Israeli startup called face.com. 
Facebook bought the startup in 2013 and developed the facial recognition tool with support from face.com's Yaniv Taigman at its Artificial Intelligence lab. 
The researchers used the software to build a 3D model of a face from a photo that can be rotated into the best position for an algorithm to begin searching for a match. 
After creating a model, the team used a neural network that had been trained on a database of faces to try and match the face with one in a test database of more than 4 million images, containing more than 4,000 separate identities, each one labelled by humans. 
Its creators said DeepFace finds a match with 97.25 per cent accuracy. 
The tagging option has now started appearing in the privacy settings of accounts globally - although in many cases it still says the feature is 'unavailable' - and a number of users have reportedly been given the tool. 
After creating a model, the team used a neural network that had been trained on a database of faces to try and match the face with one in a test database of more than 4 million images, containing more than 4,000 separate identities, each one labelled by humans. 
Its creators said DeepFace finds a match with 97.25 per cent accuracy.
The tagging option has now started appearing in the privacy settings of accounts globally - although in many cases it says the feature is 'unavailable' -  but a number of users have reportedly been given the tool.
Taylor Hatmaker at The Daily Dot , for example, said that she recently tested the feature using an album of 15 photos.
None of the images had been shared previously, and Facebook identified and automatically tagged faces in eight of the photos.
Only one tag was incorrect, and the images it didn't offer suggestions for were 'taken in dark rooms' or were blurry.
A test using real people recruited on Amazon's Mechanical Turk crowdsourcing site achieved 97.5 per cent accuracy.
Security researcher Lee Munson said : 'The social network plans to use the system to identify its users in new photos as they are uploaded.  
The tagging option (pictured bottom) has  started appearing in the settings of accounts globally - although in many cases it  says the feature is 'unavailable' - and a number of users have reportedly been given the tool
Security researcher Lee Munson said: 'The social network plans to use the system to identify its users in new photos as they are uploaded. If your visage appears in one of the 400 million pictures added to the network each day you'll receive an email from Facebook alerting you'
Its creators said DeepFace finds a match with 97.25 per cent accuracy 
'If your visage appears in one of the 400 million pictures added to the network each day you'll receive an email from Facebook alerting you.' 
Tagging photos in this way is restricted in the EU following a report by Ireland’s Data Protection Authority (DPA) that advised removing it in 2012. 
This means it is not available in Europe.  
Elsewhere, people who do have the feature but want to disable it can go to their Facebook Settings menu and open the Privacy menu. 
Under 'How can I manage tags people add and tagging suggestions there will be an option labelled Who sees tag suggestions when photos that look like you are uploaded?', change the option to 'No One.' 
Facebook said it does not have an official comment about the technology or rollout plans. 
Read more:
1.5k
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
