Now that's a useful gadget! Researchers reveal robot that can find, clean and fold your dirty washing (although it does cost $280,000)
Robot can do everything from find and sort clothes to fold them
Can even put the clean clothes away in the correct place
Robot can recognise items of clothing and treat them accordingly 
1.8k shares
Researchers at Berkeley today revealed their robotics team has almost cracked the problem.
It can wash and fold clothes, even recognising different items, and folding them all neatly when it's done. 
Scroll down for video
Using Willow Garage's $280,000 Personal Robot 2, Berkeley students have written software to allow it to do almost every part of the laundry process
HOW A ROBOT DOES THE LAUNDRY
The steps needed are:
Take laundry basket to washer
Open washer door
Add soap
Fold laundry or put laundry on hangers
Put away laundry in dresser or closet
Using Willow Garage's $280,000 Personal Robot 2, Berkeley students Siddharth Srivastava and his co-authors have written a paper about their version of the open-source PR2, which they have programmed to fold laundry.
In a video published this week, the robot can be seen taking clothes out of a basket and placing them in a washer. 
The semi-humanoid robot is 'roughly the size of a person' and features two arms, claw-like 'gripper' hands, a front-facing screen head, and a tilting Hokuyo laser scanner that continuously flaps up and down like an ever-chattering mouth. 
'Given only the high-level goal of cleaning all 'dirty' clothes (which are unknown in number) and actions such as pick, place, open and close, the UC Berkeley PR2 figures out a plan for doing laundry and then executes it,' said Srivastava.
'We demonstrate our techniques on several planning problems and show that they apply to challenging real-world tasks such as doing the laundry with a PR2 robot.'
The team has been developing the system since 2010.
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
The PR2 has already mastered the ability to fetch a beer from the refrigerator, pick up a sandwich from Subway, shave a man's face, set a dining table and even play pool. 
However, it still has issues with one thing - washing machines.
The PR2 can't quite differentiate between a clean, rumpled shirt lying on the floor and a dirty, rumpled shirt lying on the floor, and can't yet reach into the machine to take the clothes out of the dryer. 
Berkeley's robot is able to find and sort clothes however they are left in front of it - then wash them
The PR can't yet reach into the machine to take the clothes out of the dryer - but can do virtually everything else in the laundry process - even folding up your clothes neatly.
Robots like the car-assembly ones are designed to work in highly structured settings, which allows them to perform a wide variety of tasks with mind-boggling precision and repeatability — but only in carefully controlled environments. 
Automation of household tasks like laundry folding is somewhat compelling in itself. 
But more significantly, according to doctoral student Jeremy Maitin-Shepard, the task involves one that's proved a challenge for robots: perceiving and manipulating 'deformable objects' – things that are flexible, not rigid, so their shape isn't predictable. 
A towel is deformable; a mug or a computer isn't. 
'Existing work on robotic laundry and towel folding has shown that starting from a known configuration, the actual folding can be performed using standard techniques in robotic manufacturing,' says Maitin-Shepard. 
'Many important problems in robotics and computer vision involve deformable objects,' said Assistant Professor Pieter Abbeel of Berkeley. 
The stages the robot goes through to complete a laundry run
The team's technical innovation is a new computer vision-based approach for detecting the key points on the cloth for the robot to grasp.
 
 
1.8k
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
