Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
Recent Posts
Popular Posts
Full Bio
I've been a technology analyst for the last 15 years, covering digital media, TV, connected consumer, publishing and new emerging technologies such as 3D printing and crowdfunding. I was the founding VP of Research at GigaOM and recently founded my own company,  NextMarket Insights . Follow my posts here by clicking "+ Follow" link under my name, follow me on  Twitter ,  Facebook  or  Google+ , or listen to my podcast conversations with technology makers and breakers at  Soundcloud . 
Loading...
Loading...
Forget Fire TV. Echo Looks Like Amazon's Smart Home Command Center
Amazon did something this week that seemed almost impossible anymore in today’s rumor-driven tech media environment: they announced a device that seemed to come out of nowhere.
Yep, I, along with pretty much everyone, was surprised by the release this week of Echo , a connected speaker with voice command integration.
Like many have already observed in the past few days, the device is functionally something of a love child between Sonos and Siri, which makes it a perfect fit as a central piece to Amazon’s smart home strategy. Before I would said that about Fire TV, in part because I and no one else really saw or expected the Echo, but also because the TV and its connected boxes are logical integration points for fixed smart home connectivity as well as a smart home user interface.
However, seeing Amazon’s new device I’d say forget the Fire TV: the Echo looks to be Amazon’s bigger connected home bet.
One of the key reasons I believe this is the heavy emphasis on voice command interface. As I’ve written before , voice interfaces are fast becoming a key next-generation consumer technology interface; by creating a speaker with voice recognition tied to a cloud-based instruction and behavior learning engine, Amazon now has the ability to not only take direct commands for access to Amazon and other services, but it also has all the necessary inputs to tap into anticipatory computing algorithms that will preemptively anticipate your need for in-home actions and external services.
Amazon Echo Speaker
But its more than just voice. Given that the device has both Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, this makes the device a logical control point and command interface to a growing number of smart devices. Whether its a Bluetooth or Wi-Fi doorlock, smart lighting or security, one could imagine Amazon integration with devices as well as smart home services, and doing so with voice command.
It also wouldn’t be surprising to see commerce service integration (this is, after all, a device being sold first to Amazon Prime customers with a  $100 credit) with services like Amazon Fresh. Amazon already has created a purpose built order-engine hardware device with Dash, but why not make things a little less obvious?  Instead of search for your Dash, you can just say “Alexa, more detergent please.”
Of course, much of this is just speculation, and Amazon could actually be just trying to sell lots of units seeing how much market value Sonos has gotten by disrupting home audio. But I think given the high emphasis on voice interface, associated cloud integration, and on-board Wi-Fi and Bluetooth, there’s no doubt that Amazon has big plans to make Echo the in-home voice-command interface for devices, services and more.
And lastly, like with the Fire Phone, Amazon might overplay its hand eventually. The knee jerk reaction – already seen around much of the web – is ‘why would I want an Amazon controlled listening microphone in my house again?’.  First the company needs to create demand based on a great speaker with true differentiation, then slowly unlock value (minus the hard sell and creepiness) over time.
Enter Your Comment
