Connect
Opinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.
The Batten Institute at the University of Virginia's Darden School of Business improves the world through entrepreneurship and innovation. The Institute's academic research center advances knowledge that addresses real-world challenges and shapes Darden's curriculum, and the Center for Entrepreneurial Leadership offers one of the world's top entrepreneurship programs. The Batten Institute was established with gifts now totaling over $100 million from U.Va. alumnus the late Frank Batten, Sr., a media pioneer, visionary, and founder of The Weather Channel. www.batteninstitute.org.
Loading...
Loading...
In the last decade, technology has made it cheaper and easier to start new businesses, finance them, realize operational efficiencies and scale geographically. It has also empowered customers and employees through social media, which has created opportunities for competitors. While these changes have been transformative, coming technology advances in the areas of smart robotics, artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things and Big Data (“AI Revolution”) will metamorphose how businesses are staffed, operated and managed.
Businesses of the future will look a lot different than the businesses of today. Most will be staffed by some combination of smart robots, smart machines and people. Technology will likely displace many human workers. In the best research published to date, authors Frey & Osborne of the University of Oxford opine that up to 66% of the U.S. workforce has a medium to high risk of being displaced by technology in the next 10-20 years. What jobs will require humans?
The predictions from experts at MIT, IBM and Oxford are that humans still will be needed for jobs requiring complex critical thinking, creativity, innovative thinking, and high emotional and social engagement with other humans, as well as performing customized manual tasks requiring physical dexterity.
Thinking critically and innovatively and effectively engaging with others emotionally are not easy for any of us because they require us to overcome our naturally reflexive ways of thinking, listening, and being emotionally defensive. Overcoming them usually requires the help of others in a supportive trusting environment. Thinking critically and innovatively are team activities. The good news is that the science of learning provides us with a blueprint for how to create the kind of work environment that enables higher-order thinking, creativity and human engagement. A key finding is that an emotionally positive work environment better enables learning, thinking, innovating and collaborating while an emotionally negative work environment inhibits them.
In other words, most people won’t perform at their highest potential in a work environment that is hostile, untrustworthy or where they are fearful. As psychologist Abraham Maslow stated—“people will engage in learning to the extent they are not crippled by fear and to the extent they feel safe enough to dare.”
The culture and leadership model needed to create an emotionally positive work environment are very different than the prevalent cultures and models resulting from the Industrial Revolution. Command and control leadership, Theory X leadership beliefs as defined by Douglas McGregor and cultures of fear will not enable the work environment needed in the AI Revolution. The attitudes and behaviors of arrogant, elitist, all-knowing hierarchical leaders will not optimize higher-order human thinking, creativity or emotional engagement. The AI Revolution will require many businesses to confront this reality.
(Credit: istock.com/designaart)
The findings in the science of learning are consistent with eight major business research projects conducted over the last 30 plus years that have illuminated the common characteristics of consistent high-performance businesses. Thus, we know “the secrets” of building a high-performance humanistic positive emotional work environment that enables humans to overcome their naturally suboptimal ways of thinking, learning and relating. Like most things in business, however, the concepts are simple to state; the real challenge is the daily rigorous execution of the principles.
Page 1 / 2
Enter Your Comment
