Nobody talks on Instagram any more, they just send emojis instead, site says as it launches plans for an emoji dictionary
‘Emojineering’ project will see Instagram try to understand how we use the smileys
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
As emoji use on Instagram continues to rise, the site has launched a plan to use computers to figure out exactly what they all mean.
In some countries, the small yellow smiley faces are now included in most posts on the site. And as a result, it has launched a plan to better understand how and why people use them.
Emoji first fully arrived in October 2011, when Apple added them to the iOS keyboard, and Android support followed soon after. Now, nearly half of comments and captions on Instagram contain the characters, and the site added support for them in hashtags last week.
Now it says that it is working to use that huge stash of data about their use to work out exactly what they mean. By working out what words tend to be used near what emoji — that words like “lolol” and “ahahaha” tend to come near the face that is crying with laughter, for instance — the site hopes to use computers to work out what the emoji are being used to mean.
“It is a rare privilege to observe the rise of a new language,” wrote Thomas Dimson, a software engineer on the Instagram data team. “By applying machine learning and natural language processing techniques, we’ll discover the hidden semantics of emoji.”
As well as working out which emoji tend to be used near what words, and which words seem to be substituted by which emoji, the site is also working out which of the characters tend to be used near one another.
Sports characters tend to come together, for instance, though the bowling emoji also comes near the various drinking ones. Shoes and handbags tend to be used with one another, as do swimming suits and marine animals.
“On Instagram, emoji are becoming a valid and near-universal method of expression in all languages,” writes Dimson, who observes that as emoji use increases internet slang like “lol” and “xoxo” tends to decrease.
“By observing words and emoji together we were able to discern representations of both. These representations can help us better understand their semantics and find distinctive characteristics of similar symbols.”
The site also released data on which countries tend to use emoji more often. In Finland, 63 per cent of posts use emoji .The UK comes third in the rankings, after Finland and France, with 48 per cent of posts using the characters. In Tanzania, only 20 per cent of posts including the smileys.
Arts and Entertainment
Life and Style
News
Life and Style
Life and Style
tech
News
people
Sport
Arts and Entertainment
film
News
Life and Style
2
 
'We will not sit down with Nicola Sturgeon'
In an exclusive interview, Ed Balls says he won't negotiate his first Budget with SNP MPs - even if Labour need their votes to secure its passage
How ordinary Britons celebrated VE Day
Our perception of VE Day usually involves crowds of giddy Britons casting off the shackles of war with gay abandon. The truth was more nuanced
Typefaces still matter in the digital age
A new typeface once took years to create, now thousands are available at the click of a drop-down menu. So why do most of us still rely on the old classics, asks Meg Carter?
'Missing link' between Earth's two life-forms found
New microbial species tells us something about our dark past, say scientists
Pan Am Experience: A 'flight' back to the 70s
Tim Walker checks in and checks out a four-hour journey with a difference
Humans aren't alone in indulging in politics
Voting, mutual back-scratching, coups and charismatic leaders - it's everywhere in the animal world
Crisp sales are in decline
As a nation we're filling up on popcorn and pitta chips and forsaking their potato-based predecessors
Ronald McDonald the muse
A new wave of artists is taking inspiration from the fast food chain
13 best picnic blankets
Dine al fresco without the grass stains and damp bottoms with something from our pick of picnic rugs
Barcelona vs Bayern Munich player ratings
Lionel Messi scores twice - but does he score highest in our ratings?
Explosive batsman who sets the range for Kiwis' big guns
Martin Guptill has smashed early runs for Derbyshire and tells Richard Edwards to expect more from the 'freakish' Brendon McCullum and his buoyant team during their tour of England
Miliband's unlikely journey from hapless geek to heart-throb
He was meant to be Labour's biggest handicap - but has become almost an asset
On the margins
From Militant Elvis to Women's Equality: a guide to the underdogs standing in the election
'This is the battle of young Egypt for the future of our country'
Ex-Muslim Brotherhood minister Amr Darrag still believes the opposition can rid Egypt of its military regime and replace it with 'moderate' Islamic rule, he tells Robert Fisk
Why patients must rely less on doctors
Improving our own health is the 'blockbuster drug of the century'
