Careers in tech: Artificial intelligence
Artificial Intelligence is all around us and now is the time to get involved
David Crookes is a journalist, author, exhibition curator and communications manager.
Your email address
Note: We do not store your email address(es) but your IP address will be logged to prevent abuse of this feature. Please read our Legal Terms & Policies
How would you feel if a robot looked after your child? Worried? Anxious? What if that robot was as intelligent as yourself, if not more so, and was able to react to every problem and whim without ever tiring or wanting to scream?
For those studying and working in artificial intelligence, creating this kind of situation could so easily become a reality.
“AI is embedded in many educational applications,” explains Janet Read, a professor in child computer interaction at the University of Central Lancashire, pointing to new gesture recognition and interpretation technologies.
“Brain computer interfaces are detecting mood and emotion and in the near future robotic and virtual systems might be able to partially take on the care of children.”
AI is one of the most exciting fields of technological study, giving computers the ability to ‘think’, ‘learn’ and adapt when faced with a host of data.
But it is not a technology of the future. It is all around us today, pervading our everyday lives and allowing us to take advantage of image and voice recognition software, intelligent web searching and medical advances, the latter made possible thanks to robot scientists formulating hypotheses and interpreting data.
 
Modern video games use AI to generate intelligent behaviour in non-player characters. NASA's Mars Rover was designed to make its own decisions, stopping and analysing only the rocks it felt would be useful. And more is to come, with driverless cars and intelligent home systems on their way.
As a result, many universities have been promoting AI courses and modules for both undergraduate and postgraduate students. Each of them requires a solid background in computing, maths and physics and explores knowledge representation, planning and learning.
“Studying AI is perfect for students who can solve problems in abstract ways and devise new angles,” says Dr Richard Watson, senior lecturer in electronics and computer science at the University of Southampton. “But AI is also about learning techniques of advanced computer science, so students should have a broad education in computer science before they tackle it.”
For that reason, very few undergraduate degrees will concentrate entirely on AI. Instead, it tends to be offered as modules within an overall computer science degree.
A self-portrait of NASA's Mars Rover (Getty)
Even so, a great many courses explore the subject well, looking at the benefits of intelligent prediction for businesses and grounding students in the AI programming language Prolog.
MSc courses, in particular, focus on linking computational intelligence techniques to the real world, covering AI in games, robotic science, search engines, biological sciences, medicine and industry.
And as more and more people become engaged in the goal of creating intelligence, an increasing number of jobs are available for those with the right skills.
“Some of our students will enter IT consultancy roles while others will go to work for big companies such as IBM, Microsoft and Google,” says Dr Watson.
Certainly, the career prospects for students look good. Google is one of a number of companies snapping up AI firms – it bought the British AI start-up DeepMind for a cool £242m – and Dr Watson says new techniques are constantly being worked on. “Google has its hands on so much data that it is hungry to know what to do with it,” he says. “AI will help them get more out of it.”
Read more:
News
i100
News
people
Sport
Life and Style
Life and Style
nfl
News
2
 
'We will not sit down with Nicola Sturgeon'
In an exclusive interview, Ed Balls says he won't negotiate his first Budget with SNP MPs - even if Labour need their votes to secure its passage
How ordinary Britons celebrated VE Day
Our perception of VE Day usually involves crowds of giddy Britons casting off the shackles of war with gay abandon. The truth was more nuanced
Typefaces still matter in the digital age
A new typeface once took years to create, now thousands are available at the click of a drop-down menu. So why do most of us still rely on the old classics, asks Meg Carter?
'Missing link' between Earth's two life-forms found
New microbial species tells us something about our dark past, say scientists
Pan Am Experience: A 'flight' back to the 70s
Tim Walker checks in and checks out a four-hour journey with a difference
Humans aren't alone in indulging in politics
Voting, mutual back-scratching, coups and charismatic leaders - it's everywhere in the animal world
Crisp sales are in decline
As a nation we're filling up on popcorn and pitta chips and forsaking their potato-based predecessors
Ronald McDonald the muse
A new wave of artists is taking inspiration from the fast food chain
13 best picnic blankets
Dine al fresco without the grass stains and damp bottoms with something from our pick of picnic rugs
Barcelona vs Bayern Munich player ratings
Lionel Messi scores twice - but does he score highest in our ratings?
Explosive batsman who sets the range for Kiwis' big guns
Martin Guptill has smashed early runs for Derbyshire and tells Richard Edwards to expect more from the 'freakish' Brendon McCullum and his buoyant team during their tour of England
Miliband's unlikely journey from hapless geek to heart-throb
He was meant to be Labour's biggest handicap - but has become almost an asset
On the margins
From Militant Elvis to Women's Equality: a guide to the underdogs standing in the election
'This is the battle of young Egypt for the future of our country'
Ex-Muslim Brotherhood minister Amr Darrag still believes the opposition can rid Egypt of its military regime and replace it with 'moderate' Islamic rule, he tells Robert Fisk
Why patients must rely less on doctors
Improving our own health is the 'blockbuster drug of the century'
