Save up to 65% when you subscribe today.
The perfect gift for any holiday or occasion.
Robot Athletes Got Game [Video]
From baseball to billiards, robots are improving their play, even competing in the RoboCup and RoboGames
Table tennis robot developed at Zhejiang University.
Image from video courtesy of Zhejiang University
 
 
 
 
 
BASEBALL: It is sometimes said that the hardest task to master in sports is hitting a baseball. Researchers at Ishikawa Watanabe Laboratory in Japan have devised one robot that pitches and another that bats. Neither chews tobacco.
PING-PONG, humanoid: Table tennis seems to attract robotics researchers. Here, two humanoid robots developed at Zhejiang University in China hold a long volley with one another.
PING-PONG, nonhumanoid: This contraption from Omron Automation Lab plays pretty well. As is often the case, if a bot does not have to look or move like a human, it can often perform better.
SOCCER: “Football,” or fútbol, is the planet’s most popular sport. Just like the World Cup there is a RoboCup for robotic soccer teams, complete with different classes by size of robot. The video below shows a match between the U.S. and Japan, with two-robot teams, in the “kid-size” category.
AIR HOCKEY: Huh? Air hockey isn’t a sport. Well, when you see this little, round tabletop bot, you’ll be impressed. Equally impressive is that its maker, Jose Julio of 3D Systems, created it with parts from a 3-D printer.
BILLIARDS: I know, it’s “pool,” and not necessarily viewed by some as a sport—but how many random balls on a table can you sink in a row? This robot built by Thomas Nierhoff at Technical University of Munich in Germany pockets five!
BADMINTON: Don’t think this sport is difficult? Try it. The robot from the Flanders Mechatronics Technology Center in Belgium can only move on a single track, back and forth across the court. A birdie—or shuttlecock—however, flies in varied trajectories, so just tracking and swatting it is an accomplishment.
BASKETBALL: Okay, this robot at the Carnegie Science Center in Pittsburgh is just a big arm that shoots free throws, but it seems to do that well.
Comments
New Comment You must sign in or register as a ScientificAmerican.com member to submit a comment.
More from Scientific American
Latest from SA Blog Network
Postdoctoral Scholar Laureate Institute for Brain Research
© 2015 Scientific American, a Division of Nature America, Inc.
Comment (optional)
