Growing old can actually BOOST your brainpower: Study finds some areas of our brain do not peak until our fifties
Some areas of the brain do not peak until they are in their fifties
 Ability to recognize faces improves until the early 30s
 Visual short-term memory improves until with hit our forties
821 shares
Like a fine wine, some parts of the human brain can take decades to mature and reach their peak, researchers have found.
They say rather than peaking in our twenties, in fact some areas do not reach their full potential until we grow old.
In fact,  the ability to evaluate other people's emotional states, the peak occurred much later, in the 40s or 50s.
The ability to evaluate other people's emotional states does not peak until we are in our 40s or 50s, researchers said.
WHAT IT MEANS 
18-19: Information-processing speed peaks
25: Short-term memory peaks, and then levels off for a time
30: Memory for faces peaks
35: Short-term memory begins to decline
40-50: Ability to evaluate emotions peaks
60: Still learning new vocabulary skills
60 - 70+: Crystallized intelligence peaks
'At any given age, you're getting better at some things, you're getting worse at some other things, and you're at a plateau at some other things,' said Joshua Hartshorne of MIT's Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences and one of the paper's authors. 
The study, which appears in the journal Psychological Science, found that different components of fluid intelligence peak at different ages, some as late as age 40.
'There's probably not one age at which you're peak on most things, much less all of them,' said Laura Germine, a postdoc in psychiatric and neurodevelopmental genetics at MGH and the paper's other author. 
'It paints a different picture of the way we change over the lifespan than psychology and neuroscience have traditionally painted.' 
RELATED ARTICLES
821 shares
Hartshorne and Germine were able to take a broader look at aging and cognition because they have been running large-scale experiments on the Internet, where people of any age can become research subjects.
Their web sites, gameswithwords.org and testmybrain.org, feature cognitive tests designed to be completed in just a few minutes. 
Through these sites, the researchers have accumulated data from nearly 3 million people in the past several years.
In 2011, Germine published a study showing that the ability to recognize faces improves until the early 30s before gradually starting to decline.  
Around the same time, Hartshorne found that subjects' performance on a visual short-term memory task also peaked in the early 30s.
Intrigued by these results, the researchers, then graduate students at Harvard University, decided that they needed to explore a different source of data, in case some aspect of collecting data on the Internet was skewing the results. 
They dug out sets of data, collected decades ago, on adult performance at different ages on the Weschler Adult Intelligence Scale, which is used to measure IQ, and the Weschler Memory Scale.
Hartshorne and Germine were able to take a broader look at aging and cognition because they have been running large-scale experiments on the Internet, where people of any age can become research subjects.
Together, these tests measure about 30 different subsets of intelligence, such as digit memorization, visual search, and assembling puzzles.
Hartshorne and Germine developed a new way to analyze the data that allowed them to compare the age peaks for each task. 
'We were mapping when these cognitive abilities were peaking, and we saw there was no single peak for all abilities. The peaks were all over the place,' Hartshorne says. 
'This was the smoking gun.'
However, the dataset was not as large as the researchers would have liked, so they decided to test several of the same cognitive skills with their larger pools of Internet study participants. 
For the Internet study, the researchers chose four tasks that peaked at different ages, based on the data from the Weschler tests. 
HOW THEY DID IT
Hartshorne and Germine were able to take a broader look at aging and cognition because they have been running large-scale experiments on the Internet, where people of any age can become research subjects.
Their web sites, gameswithwords.org and testmybrain.org , feature cognitive tests designed to be completed in just a few minutes. 
Through these sites, the researchers have accumulated data from nearly 3 million people in the past several years.
They also included a test of the ability to perceive others' emotional state, which is not measured by the Weschler tests.
The researchers gathered data from nearly 50,000 subjects and found a very clear picture showing that each cognitive skill they were testing peaked at a different age. 
For example, raw speed in processing information appears to peak around age 18 or 19, then immediately starts to decline. 
Meanwhile, short-term memory continues to improve until around age 25, when it levels off and then begins to drop around age 35.
For the ability to evaluate other people's emotional states, the peak occurred much later, in the 40s or 50s.
More work will be needed to reveal why each of these skills peaks at different times, the researchers say. 
However, previous studies have hinted that genetic changes or changes in brain structure may play a role.
Read more:
821
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
