Scientists at Manchester University studied brains of the Apylsia sea slug
They created maps that let them look at neuron networks across the brain
Sea slug brains share some of the complex structures of higher organisms
They found neurons formed groups that were laid out like tiles in the brain
Findings suggest the brain is organised in less complex way than believed
Researchers say it could help them unpick how the human brain works
37 shares
The complexity of the human brain - with its 86 billion neurons - has puzzled scientists ever since the Greek philosopher Plato attempted to understand how it worked.
Now researchers are claiming that our brains may in fact be far simpler than had previously been believed - and it took research on sea slugs to reveal it.
Neuroscientists based at Manchester University and the Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science in Chicago, have studied the brains of sea slugs as they move.
Researchers studied the brains of the sea slug Aplysia (pictured above), which have around 18,000 neurons
Their brains, while far smaller than our own, share some of the complex structures of higher organisms while their neurons are large and easy to observe.
RELATED ARTICLES
Share
The researchers found that rather than creating a mass of confusing signals that appear in scans of the human brain, they were able to see neurons acting as groups.
FORGET TO REMEMBER MORE 
The act of remembering may be one of the major reasons why we forget, researchers have said.
The groundbreaking research was able to identify identify neural fingerprints of specific memories, distinguishing brain activity patterns produced when viewing a picture of a necklace, say, from a picture of Marilyn Monroe.
The study proved that intentional recall is beyond a simple reawakening of a memory; and actually leads us to forget other competing experiences that interfere with retrieval.
The study from the University of Birmingham and the MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit in Cambridge is the first to isolate the 'adaptive forgetting' mechanism in the human brain.
The brain imaging study found that remembering dynamically alters which aspects of our past remain accessible.
They found that these groups were actually laid out like tiles to form a circuit.
The scientists say that similar patterns exist in the brains of other organisms, including humans, but are scaled up by millions of times.
Dr Mark Humphries, a Medical Research Council fellow at Manchester University who was involved in the research, said: 'What happens in the brain during movement is currently only well understood for small, dedicated neural circuits.
'This research introduces new methods for pulling apart neural circuits to expose their inner building blocks.
'Our methods could be used to help understand how brain networks change in disease states and how drugs act to restore normal brain function.'
Sea slugs have just 18,000 neurons in their entire nervous systems yet have been found to be remarkably similar to other organisms.
Previous research has shown that they can form memories and signal muscle movements in the same way as higher organisms.
Until recently scientists have had to study brain activity by looking at the action of individual neurons using electrodes.
Even sophisticated brain scanning technology like functional magnetic resonance fails to provide a clear picture of how the brain is organised beyond its physical structures.
The scientists studied neurons in the ganglion area of the brains of sea slugs, shown in the image above
The human brain (shown in the model above) is known to have specific structures that perform different roles but how neurons are organised within those has remained a mystery as studying them as they work is difficult
In the new research, which is published in the journal Neuron, the team of scientists were able to map how the large neurons in the brains of the sea slug Aplysia as they moved.
Led by Angela Burno from the Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science, the researchers were able to do this by using a voltage sensitive dye and detecting the tiny spikes in current that occurred in the slugs' brains as the nerves that drive their muscles fired.
They found there were four classes of neural ensembles that behaved in different ways - oscillatory, bursters, pausers and those where there was no strong activity.
Until now scientists have had to study electrical signals of individual neurons or the whole brain (like above)
These tended to be organised into modules or tiles that had related activity and pass signals between them in a loop.
The researchers say the sea slugs could provide a useful analogy for when studying human brains.
Professor William Frost, a cell biologist at the Rosalind Franklin University of Medicine and Science in Chicago, said: 'This is a really exciting time.
'This collaboration has created an approach that cuts the time taken to map neural networks from years to a few hours.'
Share or comment on this article
37
shares
We are no longer accepting comments on this article.
Who is this week's top commenter? Find out now
More top stories
DON'T MISS
 
 
Published by Associated Newspapers Ltd
Part of the Daily Mail, The Mail on Sunday & Metro Media Group
