{"Igrecode":["3087"],"ORGANIZATION":["Checklist '' Arts & Sciences | Boston University Impactx2 Logo","Creative Writing Program","CAS","MedicalAll BUBU MapsBU DirectoryGoogle About Message","CAS Facts Office of the Dean Offices , Maps & Directions Faculty Sustainability Global Annual Report Strategic Plan Leadership Advisory Board Academics Departments & Schools Interdisciplinary Programs Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Research Centers & Institutes Research News","Video Series News & Events Latest News CAS Lectures & Events Administrative Calendars CAS Publications arts & sciences Magazine Faculty Bookshelf Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Transfer Students Current Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Administrative Calendars Office of the Dean List of Chairs & Directors Faculty & Staff Handbook Chairs & Directors Guide Forms & Instructions CAS News Alumni Welcome","GRS Admissions Office","CV","GRS Admissions Office","GRE","ETS","MFA","GRE","GRE","ETS","MFA","GRE","TOEFL","ETS","International Student Documents Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Apply Application Requirements and Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Hints Reconsideration International Students Dual Degree Programs","CAS","CAS Howard Eichenbaum Elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Eichenbaum","BU Center for Memory","Bearing Fruit Arts & Sciences Students","NSF Fellowships Memorial Service Held for Daryl Carr Dean Sapiro Wins Harold Lasswell Award Lectures & Events 27AprBiology Department Weekly Seminar 27AprLearning","Us '' Boston University Arts & Sciences Offices , Maps & Directions Administrative Office Directory"],"DATE":["' 16","3087","3087","3087"],"MONEY":["$ 80 Application fee Official Transcripts","$ 80 Application fee Official Transcripts"],"Irecommendation":["Two"],"PERSON":["Qais Akbar Omar","Qais","Paul"],"Sentences":["Application Checklist '' Arts & Sciences | Boston University Impactx2 Logo and Photo Impactx2 Content How can we work together to promote better cultural understanding worldwide ? ","Qais Akbar Omar -LRB- GRS ' 16 -RRB- , a graduate student in the Creative Writing Program , has published a much-praised memoir , A Fort of Nine Towers : An Afghan Family Story . ","He recalls how the violence and tumult of civil war jolted his family , who , despite losing relatives , their home , and possessions , continued to nurture his wish to attend a university . ","Impactx2 Call to Action With your help , students like Qais gain the skills they need to tell their story and give us a broader understanding of the world . ","Will you support CAS ? ","This SiteBU MedicalAll BUBU MapsBU DirectoryGoogle About Message from the Dean CAS Facts Office of the Dean Offices , Maps & Directions Faculty Sustainability Global Annual Report Strategic Plan Leadership Advisory Board Academics Departments & Schools Interdisciplinary Programs Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Research Centers & Institutes Research News Explorations : A Video Series News & Events Latest News CAS Lectures & Events Administrative Calendars CAS Publications arts & sciences Magazine Faculty Bookshelf Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Transfer Students Current Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Administrative Calendars Office of the Dean List of Chairs & Directors Faculty & Staff Handbook Chairs & Directors Guide Forms & Instructions CAS News Alumni Welcome from the Dean Alumni Resources Giving Application Checklist The application , application fee and application materials must be received in the GRS Admissions Office by the application deadline . ","Personally written documents such as the personal statement or CV submitted through the online application do not need paper copies sent to the GRS Admissions Office . ","Domestic Students Application $ 80 Application fee Official Transcripts . ","Photocopies and other facsimiles , such as scanned\/emailed or faxed documents will not be considered official . ","Two official letters of recommendation . ","Recommendations should be submitted through the online recommendation system or with the paper recommendation form through the mail . ","Photocopies and other facsimiles , such as scanned\/emailed or faxed documents will not be considered official . ","Most departments ask for three letters ; check your department 's requirements at Application Requirements and Deadlines . ","Official GRE General scores , sent by ETS to institution code 3087 . ","Some departments may also require the Subject Test ; contact your department for details . ","Applicants applying to MFA programs are not required to submit GRE scores . ","Personal Statement Resume or CV -LRB- highly recommended , not required -RRB- Writing Sample A writing sample is required by some but not all departments . ","Check your department 's requirements at Application Requirements and Deadlines . ","International Students Application $ 80 Application fee Official Transcripts . ","These must be in English -LRB- please consult the Guidelines for submitting International Transcripts -RRB- . ","Photocopies and other facsimiles , such as scanned\/emailed or faxed documents will not be considered official . ","Two official letters of recommendation . ","Recommendations should be submitted through the online recommendation system or with the paper recommendation form through the mail . ","Photocopies and other facsimiles , such as scanned\/emailed or faxed documents will not be considered official . ","Most departments ask for three letters ; check your department 's requirements at Application Requirements and Deadlines . ","Official GRE General scores , sent by ETS to institution code 3087 . ","Some departments may also require the Subject Test ; contact your department for details . ","Applicants applying to MFA programs are not required to submit GRE scores . ","Official TOEFL scores sent by ETS to institution code 3087 . ","Personal Statement Resume or CV -LRB- highly recommended , not required -RRB- Writing Sample A writing sample is required by some but not all departments . ","Check your department 's requirements at Application Requirements and Deadlines . ","International Student Documents Prospective Students Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Admissions Apply Application Requirements and Deadlines Application Checklist Helpful Hints Reconsideration International Students Dual Degree Programs -- JD\/MA and MBA\/MA Nondegree Applicants Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Financial Aid Contact Us Transfer Students Video tour of CAS Related links Information for New Graduate Students New at CAS Howard Eichenbaum Elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences Eichenbaum , director of the BU Center for Memory and Brain , has joined some of the world 's most accomplished thinkers as a fellow in the prestigious society . ","Read More More News An Investment in the Arts , Bearing Fruit Arts & Sciences Students , Alumni Win Prestigious NSF Fellowships Memorial Service Held for Daryl Carr Dean Sapiro Wins Harold Lasswell Award Lectures & Events 27AprBiology Department Weekly Seminar 27AprLearning and Inference for Natural Language Understanding 28AprAdi Ophir : `` Gentile Troubles : Saint Paul , the Rabbis , and Us '' Boston University Arts & Sciences Offices , Maps & Directions Administrative Office Directory support CAS Twitter Instagram Facebook "],"Itoeflcode":["3087"]}