{"ORGANIZATION":["Caltech Graduate Studies Office Skip","Caltech Home > Home > Admissions > Requirements Graduate Studies Office About Caltech Admissions Academics Current Students Incoming Students Financial Support Visiting Contact Us Events News Frequently Asked Questions Outreach and Recruitment Apply Online Requirements Fees Acceptance Exchange Programs","GRE","ETS","ETS","Caltech - Graduate Studies Office"],"LOCATION":["California Blvd","Pasadena"],"DATE":["the last five years","the last two years","more than two years ago"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"Sentences":["Application Requirements - Caltech Graduate Studies Office Skip to main content Caltech Home > Home > Admissions > Requirements Graduate Studies Office About Caltech Admissions Academics Current Students Incoming Students Financial Support Visiting Contact Us Events News Frequently Asked Questions Outreach and Recruitment Apply Online Requirements Fees Acceptance Exchange Programs and Non-Degree English as a Second Language -LRB- ESL -RRB- Application Requirements Applicants must have completed a bachelor 's degree or the equivalent before beginning graduate study . ","Applicants who already possess a Ph.D. degree will not be considered for a second Ph.D. degree . ","Transcripts , general GRE scores , three letters of recommendation , a CV or resume , and the applicant 's statement of purpose are all required components of the application and are carefully weighed during the evaluation process . ","The admissions committee may also consider research papers , publications and other original work . ","Application Checklist Application Deadlines Application Instructions Required Tests Applicants should include self-reported scores and request official score reports from ETS . ","The official scores will be used to verify the self-reported scores . ","For applicants who have taken more than one test , the most recent scores will be displayed . ","Note : We usually accept scores from tests taken within the last five years . ","However , ETS will only officially report scores from tests taken within the last two years . ","For tests taken more than two years ago , applicants must send official copies of score reports as we do not accept self-reported scores as the sole submission for older test dates . ","Supplemental Documents Transcripts and Letters of Recommendation log in Caltech - Graduate Studies Office MailCode : 230-87 1200 E California Blvd , Pasadena CA 91125 Tel : 626-395-6346 Fax : 626-577-9246 Email : gradofc@caltech.edu "]}