{"ORGANIZATION":["of Computer Science","Columbia University | Admissions Columbia University The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Contact Us SEAS Department Website People Faculty Directory Research Areas Labs Achievements Education Admissions Undergraduate M.S.","Courses Student Life Departmental Life Campus Life Life","Solutions ASCENT Program Faculty Job Opportunities Admissions Undergraduate Masters Ph.D.","Undergraduate Columbia University","Columbia College Barnard College the School of Engineering and Applied Science","School of General Studies Each school","CS","School of Engineering and Applied Science","Columbia University","Computer Science MS Program","Computer Engineering MS Program","Computational Biology Computer Security Foundations of Computer Science Machine Learning Network Systems Natural Language Processing Software Systems Vision","Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science","Journalism School","The Columbia University Department of Computer Science","Columbia University","Department of Computer Science","AT&T","Google","IBM","Alcatel-Lucent","NEC","Siemens","Telcordia Technologies","Verizon","Wall Street","Computer Science","GRE","Graduate Research Assistantships","Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences","Department of Computer Science","Columbia","Columbia Video Network","FAQ","Department of Computer Science","Columbia University Privacy Policy"],"LOCATION":["Columbia","New York City","New York City"],"DATE":["monthly","summer","the Spring","October 1 of the previous year","the Fall semester","December 15 of the previous year"],"PERSON":["T. J. Watson"],"Ideadline":["October 1","December 15"],"Sentences":["Department of Computer Science , Columbia University | Admissions Columbia University The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Contact Us SEAS Department Website People Faculty Directory Research Areas Labs Achievements Education Admissions Undergraduate M.S. Ph.D. . ","Courses Student Life Departmental Life Campus Life Life in NYC Life after CS@CU Bulletin In The Press News Newsletters Highlights Distinguished Lectures Resources A to Z Adjunct Teaching Computing Jobs Technical Reports Webmail Directions Wiki Copyright FAQ Quick Links : IGERT : From Data to Solutions ASCENT Program Faculty Job Opportunities Admissions Undergraduate Masters Ph.D. . ","Undergraduate Columbia University has 4 major undergraduate schools : Columbia College Barnard College the School of Engineering and Applied Science , and the School of General Studies Each school has its own application procedure , however online information is centralized under Applying to Columbia . ","Most -LRB- but by no means all -RRB- of the CS majors are from the School of Engineering and Applied Science . ","Masters The Master of Science -LRB- MS -RRB- program is intended for professionals who wish to broaden and deepen their understanding of computer science . ","Columbia University and the New York City environment provide excellent career opportunities with multiple industries . ","The program provides a unique opportunity to develop leading-edge in-depth knowledge of specific computer science disciplines . ","MS applicants whose primary interests include software engineering , theory , AI , machine learning , vision\/graphics , natural language processing , or other core CS areas should apply to the Computer Science MS Program . ","MS applicants whose primary interests include computer architecture , parallel systems , embedded systems , or digital\/VLSI design should apply to the Computer Engineering MS Program . ","CS MS Application FAQ - Answers to common questions about the application process . ","MS Application System - To apply to the MS program . ","Students can choose from one of the following tracks : Computational Biology Computer Security Foundations of Computer Science Machine Learning Network Systems Natural Language Processing Software Systems Vision and Graphics Personalized MS Thesis DUAL MS IN JOURNALISM AND COMPUTER SCIENCE Admitted students will enroll for a total of five semesters -- approximately three in The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science and two in the Journalism School . ","In addition to taking classes already offered at the Journalism and Engineering schools , students will attend a seminar and workshop designed specifically for the dual degree program . ","The seminar will teach students about the impact of digital techniques on journalism ; the emerging role of citizens in the news process ; the influence of social media ; and the changing business models that will support newsgathering . ","In the workshop , students will use a hands-on approach to delve deeply into information design , focusing on how to build a site , section or application from concept to development , ensuring the editorial goals are kept uppermost in mind . ","For more information , please visit the program website . ","Ph.D. . ","The Columbia University Department of Computer Science is looking for top-quality students to join its PhD program . ","The department hosts exciting projects in a growing number of research areas . ","-LRB- See below . -RRB- ","Columbia University is located in New York City , one of the cultural , financial , and communications capitals of the world . ","This central location makes it possible for the members of the Department of Computer Science to have close ties with the nearby research labs of AT&T , Google , IBM -LRB- T. J. Watson -RRB- , Alcatel-Lucent , NEC , Siemens , Telcordia Technologies , Verizon , and Yahoo! , as well as with a number of major companies including financial companies of Wall Street . ","Overview of the Ph.D. . ","Program A small number of highly qualified students are admitted each year to the Ph.D. program in Computer Science . ","Admission is very competitive , based primarily on research-oriented reference letters , subject and general GRE scores , and academic grades . ","Applicants need not already hold a master 's degree ; bachelor 's degree level applicants are also encouraged to apply . ","Most admitted students receive full financial support through Graduate Research Assistantships or Teaching Assistantships , which consist of a monthly stipend plus full tuition exemption -LRB- continuation of support is , of course , contingent upon the students ' satisfactory progress in the Ph.D. program and availability of funding -RRB- . ","In addition , the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Sciences awards a small number of prestigious `` Presidential Distinguished Fellowships , '' while the Department of Computer Science also awards selective `` Departmental Fellowships . '' ","These fellowships provide full financial support to their recipients . ","Applicants are strongly encouraged to seek external funding , such as government and industry fellowships . ","Also , Columbia rents low-cost subsidized apartments near campus for both single students and students with families . ","All Ph.D. students are expected to participate in departmental and laboratory activity full-time on-campus throughout the program , except possibly for summer internships elsewhere . ","Therefore the department does not normally consider admission of part-time students . ","Also , note that it is not possible to participate in the Ph.D. program through the Columbia Video Network . ","How and When to Apply to the Ph.D. . ","Program All applications to our Ph.D. . ","Program must be made electronically . ","No paper-based applications will be accepted . ","Unfortunately , we can not make any exceptions to this rule . ","The online application system is available at https:\/\/mice.cs.columbia.edu\/recruit . ","The deadlines for the submission of your fully completed application are : To start the Ph.D. program in the Spring semester : apply by October 1 of the previous year . ","To start the Ph.D. program in the Fall semester : apply by December 15 of the previous year . ","You can still apply after these deadlines . ","However , be aware that applications are usually reviewed soon after the deadline , so late applications may not be processed as quickly or have the best chance of getting funding from our department . ","How to Get More Information Please check the answers to our comprehensive frequently asked questions -LRB- FAQ 's -RRB- , as well as our online application system ; they both contain detailed information about all aspects of the application process . ","You are also encouraged to investigate the research conducted in the Department of Computer Science prior to application . ","In particular , think about which faculty members share your research interests , and also look at the research group homepages . ","Feel free to contact potential faculty advisors by email to request information about their recent research and publications , and to ask about opportunities in their research groups or labs . ","Finally , you should become familiar with our Ph.D. degree requirements . ","Questions ? ","We receive an enormous volume of email with application-related questions , so we ask that you please read this website carefully before sending us email . ","If you do not find an answer to your question , then contact us by . ","Questions about particular research groups and\/or individual faculty members should be directed to the appropriate faculty members by email . ","© Columbia University Privacy Policy webmaster "]}