{"Igrecode":["2098"],"ORGANIZATION":["Doctoral Admissions | Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science Skip","Academics Overview of Programs Course Listings Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Masters Programs Masters Admissions Doctoral Programs Doctoral Admissions For International Students Student Awards Faculty Awards Stay Research Research","SCS Search Faculty","Allen Newell Award for Research Excellence Stay News & Events News & Press Releases The Link Magazine Media Kit","SCS","SCS SCS Career Center Message","SCS","SCS","School of Computer Science","SCS","SCS","Robotics","Computational Biology","Computational Biology","Medical Scientist Training Program","CNBC Graduate Training Program","CNBC","Doctoral Programs","School of Computer Science","Masters Programs","Robotics Institute","Language and Technologies Institute","Carnegie Mellon University","School of Computer Science","School of Computer Science","SCS","Robotics Institute","Language Technologies Institute","Carnegie Mellon University","GRE","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","Carnegie Mellon University","TOEFL","Applications Coordinator School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh","Carnegie Mellon","Supplemental Information","Supplemental Information","Robotics System Development","CMU","Computer Science","Computer Science","Applications Coordinator School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh","Carnegie Mellon University","Admissions Committee","cs.cmu.edu Departments & Offices Computer Science Department Human-Computer Interaction Institute Institute for Software Research Lane Center for Computational Biology Language Technologies Institute Machine Learning Department Robotics Institute Careers Office Computing Facilities Dean 's Business Office Office of Alumni Relations News & Calendar News Calendar The Link Magazine Academics & Admissions Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Directory","Maps & Visitor Info Search People and Research","CMU","Entrepreneurship New Venture Competition Giant Eagle Auditorium Baker Hall Monday , April 27 , 2015","SCS Faculty Candidate","ASA Conference Room 6115 Gates & Hillman Centers Monday , April 27 , 2015 - 11:30 am Talk ALEXANDER","Disney Research Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center News","National Geographic Channel","HCII","World Economic Forum","CBS","Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh","PA"],"LOCATION":["U.S.","US","PA","PA 15213-3891 USA","U.S.","Davos"],"DATE":["25 - 25th Anniversary","Dec 3 , 2014","December 3","December 15","December 3","December 15","December 15","more than two years old","December 3","5 to 10 years","December 15","December 3","December 3","December 15","Sunday","April 26 , 2015 - 9:45","January","Saturday"],"MONEY":["$ 75","$ 50","$ 125","$ 75","$ 75","$ 50","$ 125","$ 75"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"PERSON":["Mark Stehlik SCS Alumni Undergraduate Impact Scholarship Stay Departments Computational Biology Department Computer Science Department Human-Computer Interaction Institute Institute for Software Research Language Technologies Institute Machine Learning Department Robotics Institute Dean 's Business Office Alumni Engagement Careers Office Computing Facilities","Red Whittaker","Anthony Mason","Manuela Veloso"],"Ideadline":["December 15th","December 15","December 15th"],"Sentences":["Doctoral Admissions | Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science Skip to main content Academics Overview of Programs Course Listings Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Masters Programs Masters Admissions Doctoral Programs Doctoral Admissions For International Students Student Awards Faculty Awards Stay Research Research at SCS Search Faculty by Research Interest Selected Publications SCS Seminar Series Faculty Awards The Allen Newell Award for Research Excellence Stay News & Events News & Press Releases The Link Magazine Media Kit and Press Contacts Events Calendar SCS Seminar Series SCS Distinguished Lecture Series SCS 25 - 25th Anniversary Stay Outreach Directory About SCS Directions , Maps & Parking Key Contacts Tour Policy Employment at SCS SCS Career Center Message from the Dean About the Dean Alumni Engagement Mark Stehlik SCS Alumni Undergraduate Impact Scholarship Stay Departments Computational Biology Department Computer Science Department Human-Computer Interaction Institute Institute for Software Research Language Technologies Institute Machine Learning Department Robotics Institute Dean 's Business Office Alumni Engagement Careers Office Computing Facilities -LRB- Help Desk -RRB- Stay Search form Search Doctoral Admissions Jump to : SCS Graduate Online Application Doctoral Admissions FAQ Application Instructions SCS Online Graduate Application There is a common online application form available for admission to SCS Ph.D. programs and select Masters within the School of Computer Science . ","With the SCS Graduate Online Application , you may apply to up to three PhD programs and any of the Masters listed on the online application . ","Descriptions of the PhD programs can be found on the Doctoral Programs page . ","Prospective candidates may use the SCS Graduate Online Application to apply to all doctoral programs at SCS , except the MD\/PhD in Robotics or the MD\/PhD in Computational Biology . ","Students interested in the MD\/PhD in Robotics or the MD\/PhD in Computational Biology must apply via the Medical Scientist Training Program . ","More information is available here . ","Students interested in interdisciplinary programs in the Neural Basis of Cognition should apply to their primary PhD program via the SCS Graduate Online Application , but must also apply to the CNBC Graduate Training Program . ","More information may be found on the CNBC website . ","Application Deadlines & Fees Important dates to remember : Dec 3 , 2014 - Reduced Application Fees end 12:01 pm EST Transcripts are due - noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST Dec 15 , 2014 - Final deadline - noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST Test score reports are due - noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST Letters of recommendation are due - noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST Applications and all supporting documents , including letters of recommendation , for the Doctoral Programs in the School of Computer Science and for the Masters Programs in the Robotics Institute and the Language and Technologies Institute must be received by the final deadline , noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 15 . ","You may submit your application by noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 3 to avoid higher application fees . ","If you submit your application by noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 3 , the non-refundable application fee is $ 75 for one program and $ 50 for each additional program . ","Between 12:01 pm EST on December 3 and noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST on December 15 the application fee increases to $ 125 for one program and $ 75 for each additional program . ","Transcripts are due December 3 . ","Test scores reports and letters of recommendation are due December 15 . ","The early deadline does not imply an early decision . ","You may pay the fee by credit card . ","The credit card payment system is part of the online application , and instructions are given when you submit your application . ","If you do not want to pay by credit card with the online application , you may pay by a check or money order drawn on a U.S. bank , made payable to Carnegie Mellon University . ","DO NOT SEND CASH . ","We expect all applicants to pay the application fee . ","Questions ? ","For answers to common questions regarding doctoral admissions , please consult the Frequently Asked Questions page . ","If your specific question is not addressed on the FAQ page , we are always happy to answer your questions by electronic mail . ","Send inquiries to : applyweb -LSB- atsymbol -RSB- cs.cmu.edu Application Instructions To apply for admission to doctoral programs within the School of Computer Science , read the following instructions carefully and make certain that you have met all requirements when you submit your application . ","Complete the online application form for admission to graduate programs within the School of Computer Science . ","With the online SCS application form , you may apply to three Ph.D. programs , and\/or the Masters programs offered by the Robotics Institute and the Language Technologies Institute . ","The online application must be completed and submitted electronically as instructed by noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 3 with a final deadline of December 15 . ","Letters of recommendation must be requested and submitted electronically by noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 15 . ","Test Scores All applicants must take the Graduate Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- general test and have scores sent directly to Carnegie Mellon University -LRB- Institutional Code 2074 , Departmental Code 0402 -RRB- . ","See individual program requirements for complete details . ","Please refer to the GRE testing schedule to determine test dates . ","No application will be considered complete until we have received these scores . ","GRE scores will not be accepted if more than five years old . ","If your native language is not English , then you must submit the Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- . ","If you are currently working on or have received a bachelors and\/or a masters degree in the US and your native language is not English , the TOEFL is still required , but you may submit a copy of a previous TOEFL report even if it is more than two years old . ","Request your score be sent directly to Carnegie Mellon University -LRB- Institutional Code 4256 , Departmental Code 78 -RRB- . ","A successful applicant will normally have a total iBT score of at least 100 . ","We prefer that you take the TOEFL , but we will accept the International English Language Testing System -LRB- IELTS -RRB- . ","Request that your official score report be sent to : Applications Coordinator School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh , PA 15213-3891 USA Transcripts Submit one transcript from each college or university , even if no degree was granted . ","You must upload an unofficial transcript in either PDF , JPG , or GIF . ","Any other format will not be accepted . ","Mail one copy of each official transcript to the Applications Coordinator , at the address given above . ","Transcripts are due December 3 . ","Resume Submit your current Resume . ","Outline your education , research experience , work experience , publications , scholarships awarded , prizes and honors received , society memberships , and any other extracurricular activities . ","Statement of Purpose Submit a Statement of Purpose . ","Prepare a concise one or two page essay that describes your primary areas of interest in research , your related experiences , and your objective in pursuing a graduate degree at Carnegie Mellon . ","Your essay should be specific in describing your interests and motivations . ","When describing your research interests , you should explain why you think they are important areas of study and why you are particularly well-suited to pursuing them . ","You should describe any relevant education , research , commercial , government , or teaching experience . ","If you are applying to more than one program , you may -LRB- but are not required to -RRB- submit a separate Statement of Purpose for each program . ","You must upload your Resume and Statement of Purpose in either PDF , MS Word , or text format . ","Include your name and User ID on the essay . ","Notes for specific programs : Human-Computer Interaction applicants : Indicate your intended area of emphasis in the first paragraph of your Statement of Purpose . ","If appropriate to your background , you may include a link to your portfolio . ","If you are unable to provide a link , you may mail a CD of your portfolio to the Applications Coordinator , at the address given above . ","Software Engineering applicants : If you have substantial experience in software development , such as from a full-time position , internship , or coop program , we ask you to concisely summarize that background , how it prepares you for graduate-level academic work , and how it motivates your research interests . ","Submit this information as a separate document in the Supplemental Information section under Experience -LRB- Research , Industry\/Government -RRB- . ","Computation , Organizations and Society applicants : Indicate your intended area in the first paragraph of your Statement of Purpose along with the name of a possible advisor . ","For those with industrial or government experience , please describe how this experience prepares you for graduate-level academic work . ","Submit this information in the Supplemental Information section under Experience -LRB- Research , Industry -RRB- in the online application . ","Applicants may also submit a short prior publication related to their research interests . ","Masters in Robotics System Development applicants : Please provide some background information on your academic\/industrial career to date , and why\/how that leads you to be interested in CMU 's unique industry-oriented MRSD degree-program . ","In order to aid in our candidate evaluation it would be helpful for us to understand your career aspirations , how you see the mix of technical\/management education in the MRSD-program assisting you in achieving these , and what you see yourself doing in 5 to 10 years after graduation . ","Masters in Computer Science applicants : Please discuss your purpose in pursuing a Masters degree in Computer Science . ","For example , you might explain how advanced study in Computer Science fits into your future career ambitions . ","There are no right answers , and you do not need to have worked out your future plans in detail . ","We just want to see that you have thought your purpose through . ","If your background is unusual , this is also the right place to explain it to us . ","Letters of Recommendation Submit three letters of recommendation . ","Recommenders should know you relatively well and be able to evaluate the quality of your previous work . ","At least two should be from faculty or recent employers . ","With the online application , letters will be requested and submitted electronically . ","Paper recommendations will not be accepted . ","Letters of recommendation are due by December 15 . ","All deadlines are final . ","Letters received after this date may not be considered in the review of your application . ","Submitting the Application Submit the online application , pay the non-refundable application fee , request the required test scores , and mail only transcripts to the address below : Applications Coordinator School of Computer Science Carnegie Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh , PA 15213-3891 USA A non-refundable application fee of $ 75 is required for one program and $ 50 for each additional program if submitted and paid by December 3 . ","Between 12:01 pm EST on December 3 and 11:59 pm on December 15 the application fee increases to $ 125 for one program and $ 75 for each additional program . ","You may pay the fee by credit card . ","The credit card payment system is part of the online application , and instructions are given when you submit your application . ","If you do not want to pay by credit card with the online application , you may pay by a check or money order drawn on a U.S. bank , made payable to Carnegie Mellon University . ","It is your responsibility to make certain that your application , supporting documents , and letters of recommendation reach the Admissions Committee by the final deadline . ","You may check your submitted application to make certain that it is complete . ","Need Help ? ","We are always happy to answer your questions by electronic mail . ","Send inquiries to : applygrad -LSB- atsymbol -RSB- cs.cmu.edu Departments & Offices Computer Science Department Human-Computer Interaction Institute Institute for Software Research Lane Center for Computational Biology Language Technologies Institute Machine Learning Department Robotics Institute Careers Office Computing Facilities Dean 's Business Office Office of Alumni Relations News & Calendar News Calendar The Link Magazine Academics & Admissions Doctoral Programs Masters Programs Undergraduate Programs Directory , Maps & Visitor Info Search People and Research Interests Key Contacts Directions , Maps & Parking Tour Policy Upcoming Events -LSB- More -RSB- Sunday , April 26 , 2015 - 9:45 am CMU Summit on US-China Innovation and Entrepreneurship New Venture Competition Giant Eagle Auditorium Baker Hall Monday , April 27 , 2015 - 9:00 am MMBioS Cell Modeling Workshop Computational Methods for Spatially Realistic Microphysiological Simulations Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center Monday , April 27 , 2015 - 10:00 am Field Robotics Center Seminar KRISTEN HOLTZ 2109 Gates & Hillman Centers Monday , April 27 , 2015 - 10:00 am SCS Faculty Candidate - Teaching Track MOHAMMAD HAMMOUD ASA Conference Room 6115 Gates & Hillman Centers Monday , April 27 , 2015 - 11:30 am Talk ALEXANDER G. SCHWING Disney Research Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center News in Brief -LSB- More -RSB- 03.24.15 -- National Geographic Channel 's `` Stephen Hawking 's Science of the Future '' recently featured the HCII 's WorldKit project in the episode `` Perfect City . '' ","Hawking introduced the segment , which you can watch here . ","03.24.15 -- How is extreme robotics transforming the world ? ","Robotics Professor Red Whittaker answers that question in a video of his presentation at the World Economic Forum 's Davos meeting in January , now available online . ","02.19.15 -- CBS This Morning -- Saturday recently featured a report by correspondent Anthony Mason about Manuela Veloso , professor of computer science , and her artificial intelligence research involving the CoBot robots . ","Watch the segment here . ","MORE '' Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh , PA 15213 www-team -LSB- atsymbol -RSB- cs.cmu.edu Qatar Campus | Silicon Valley Campus "],"TIME":["12:01 pm EST","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST Dec 15 , 2014","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 15","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 3","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 3","Between 12:01 pm EST","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 3","noon -LRB- 12:00 pm -RRB- EST December 15","Between 12:01 pm EST","11:59 pm","9:00 am MMBioS Cell Modeling Workshop Computational Methods for Spatially Realistic Microphysiological Simulations Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center Monday , April 27 , 2015 - 10:00 am Field Robotics Center Seminar KRISTEN HOLTZ 2109 Gates & Hillman Centers Monday , April 27 , 2015"],"Igpa":["A − to A +"],"Itoefl":["20 , Listening : 15 , Reading : 20 , Speaking : 22"]}