{"Igrecode":["0402","3351"],"ORGANIZATION":["Program | Department of Computer Science Skip Top Navigation Education Degree Finder Departments & Programs Global Learning Graduate Schools Libraries Lifelong Learning Summer","Dartmouth The Undergraduate Experience Research News Faculty Experts Schools & Departments Publications & Grants Conferences & Seminars Research Support Life & Community Explore the Green Arts Across Campus Athletics & Recreation Diversity Health & Wellness Outdoors Residential Life Service Student Groups & Activities Sustainability More Admissions Schools Centers Global Arts Athletics Giving Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Department ofComputer Science","646-2206computer.science.department@dartmouth.eduContact & Department InfoContact Us Home Menu","Major Modified Majors Computer Science Minors Digital Arts Minor 4 +1 MS","CS","Digital Arts Honors Program Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes CS Jobs","Computer Science Major Read more Graduate PhD Program MS Program 4 +1 MS","Digital Arts MS","CS","Digital Arts Apply Courses","Research Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Labs Projects Technical Reports Annual Research","People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings","Dartmouth Tenure-track Faculty","PhD Program 2015 Admission Requirements Please","Graduate Office","GRE","TOEFL","ETS","TOEFL","General GRE","TOEFL","Dartmouth Programs","TOEFL","GRE","GRE","Dartmouth","Computer Science Supplement","GRE","GRE","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","GRE","Computer Science Graduate Admissions","Digital Arts MS","CS","Digital Arts Apply Courses","Middle-Eastern Studies Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences","Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American","Carribean Studies Linguistics and Cognitive Science Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women","Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Connect With Us Facebook iTunes U Twitter YouTube","Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Contact Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Graduate Research What","Major Modified Majors Computer Science Minors Digital Arts Minor 4 +1 MS","CS","Digital Arts Honors Program Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes CS Jobs","PhD Program MS Program 4 +1 MS","Digital Arts MS","CS","Digital Arts Apply Courses Graduate Life Current Students Alumni Professors Back Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Labs Projects Technical Reports Annual Research","CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings","Computational Jewelry Approximate Nearest Neighbour Searching Digital Image Forensics FG Family-Based Protein Design Green Lite Dartmouth MCMC","Theory of Computing Multimodal Protein Structure Price and Allocation Algorithms Reconstructing Ancient Egyptian Tombs Robotic Origami Folding Smartphone Sensing Towards Effective PKI Trajectories for Robots Trusted Hardware Trustworthy Health and Wellness Visual Learning Back Emily Whiting","TED-x-BeaconStreet Students Phone"],"LOCATION":["U.S.","Dewey Field Road","Hanover","NH"],"DATE":["up to five years","2015","January 15 , 2015","January 15 , 2015","January 15 , 2015","January 15 , 2015","nine months of each year","five years","every year","the summer","3351","3351","March 6 , 2015 PhD Program MS Program 4 +1 MS"],"MONEY":["$ 40","$ 40.00","2,350"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"PERSON":["Sean Smith"],"Iaddress":["Graduate Studies Dartmouth College Attn : Computer Science Graduate Admissions 37 Dewey Field Road , Suite 6062 , Room 437 Hanover , NH 03755-1419"],"Ideadline":["January 15 , 2015"],"Sentences":["PhD Program | Department of Computer Science Skip Top Navigation Education Degree Finder Departments & Programs Global Learning Graduate Schools Libraries Lifelong Learning Summer at Dartmouth The Undergraduate Experience Research News Faculty Experts Schools & Departments Publications & Grants Conferences & Seminars Research Support Life & Community Explore the Green Arts Across Campus Athletics & Recreation Diversity Health & Wellness Outdoors Residential Life Service Student Groups & Activities Sustainability More Admissions Schools Centers Global Arts Athletics Giving Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Department ofComputer Science -LRB- 603 -RRB- 646-2206computer.science.department@dartmouth.eduContact & Department InfoContact Us Home Menu Undergraduate What You Will Learn The Major Modified Majors Computer Science Minors Digital Arts Minor 4 +1 MS in CS with Digital Arts Honors Program Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes CS Jobs and Internships Considering Graduate School ? ","Computer Science Major Read more Graduate PhD Program MS Program 4 +1 MS in CS with Digital Arts MS in CS with Digital Arts Apply Courses Graduate Life Current Students Alumni Professors Graduate Life Read more Apply Read more Research Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Labs Projects Technical Reports Annual Research Symposium Job Openings Labs Read more Projects Read more What 's New News and Events Media Faculty Achievements Read more Alumni News Read more People Jobs CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Tenure-track Faculty Position Go to add Search Close Search Search PhD Program Our doctoral program is a full-time program : Admitted doctoral students have only the Ph.D. as their degree objective , and they have guaranteed funding for up to five years . ","Applying to the PhD Program 2015 Admission Requirements Please note that the 2015 PhD application deadline has passed ; we are no longer accepting applications . ","Questions about our PhD program should be directed by email to phd@cs.dartmouth.edu . ","The required components of your application are : The online application form Three -LRB- 3 -RRB- letters of recommendation All applicants should upload a scanned copy of their transcripts . ","Applicants should not send an official transcript to the Graduate Office unless they are admitted and accept our offer of Admission . ","All applicants may self report GRE and TOEFL scores . ","However , official scores from ETS should be sent to our office for all applicants . ","TOEFL or IELTS scores -LRB- required for non-native English speakers , photocopy accepted , original required upon admission -RRB- The $ 40 application fee These items must reach us by January 15 , 2015 in order for your application to receive full consideration . ","Arrange for official transcripts to be sent to us from each college or university you have attended as a regular undergraduate or graduate student . ","They must arrive by January 15 , 2015 . ","We require the General GRE . ","Your score report must reach us by January 15 , 2015 . ","If it will be late , you may send us a photocopy now and the official report later . ","If English is not your native language , we require that you take the TOEFL -LRB- Test Of English as a Foreign Language -RRB- or the IELTS -LRB- International English Language Testing System exam -RRB- . ","An IELTS band score of 7.0 or above is required for Dartmouth Programs , but we have no specific test score requirements for the TOEFL or GRE . ","If you are transferring from a U.S. university , we may waive the language test . ","As with the GRE , we will accept a photocopy until the official report is available , but the photocopy must reach us by January 15 , 2015 . ","We prefer that your recommenders give their recommendations online . ","Once you have listed their names on the application , an email will be sent to them with a link to the application site . ","However , if necessary , we will accept recommendations in sealed envelopes through the mail . ","We require a $ 40.00 application fee , to be paid by credit card online . ","The fee helps to cover the cost of processing your application and is non-refundable . ","The application fee will not be waived . ","Like many graduate programs , we base our admissions decisions primarily on the information requested above . ","We have no minimum test scores . ","We recognize that you may have talents and experience that do not shine through the forms and test scores . ","Use the Application Essay section of the online application to give additional information . ","Do you have a specific reason for coming to Dartmouth ? ","Specific goals for your study ? ","Significant work experience ? ","Why do you want to do advanced training in computer science ? ","Include any publications you have authored . ","In the Computer Science Supplement section of the online application , attach examples of your work . ","This is also the place where you can attach a resume . ","At the discretion of the admissions committee , we award stipends as well as tuition grants without stipend . ","The stipend awards cover tuition waiver and a payment for living expenses for nine months of each year for five years , as long as satisfactory progress is made toward the Ph.D. . ","The stipend for 2015-2016 is $ 2,350 per month , and it generally increases every year . ","Health insurance cost for the academic year is covered by the college for full-time students . ","Graduate students who receive support contribute to the program by teaching or grading undergraduate courses , assisting with advanced courses , and participating in research projects . ","Additional stipend is provided for the summer months if the student performs research or teaching assistance during that period . ","There is no separate application for financial aid . ","Every applicant is considered for financial aid , unless you say that you do not need financial support . ","If you do not need support , please indicate this on the application form , and tell us how you expect to be supported . ","Frequently Asked Questions Q . ","What are the institution and department codes for the GRE ? ","A . ","The GRE institution code is 3351 , and the GRE department code is 0402 . ","Q . ","What are the institution and department codes for the TOEFL ? ","A . ","The TOEFL institution code is 3351 , and the TOEFL department code is 78 . ","Q . ","If my GRE scores are low , but I have good grades , can I still get admission ? ","A . ","Our decision takes into account all components of your application . ","Therefore , it is usually impossible to predict the outcome until you apply and the admissions committee goes over your entire application . ","Q. Can I be admitted for the Winter term ? ","A. No . ","We only admit one class each year , matriculating in the Fall term . ","Q. Where should I have the transcripts and scores sent ? ","A. Send to : Graduate Studies Dartmouth College Attn : Computer Science Graduate Admissions 37 Dewey Field Road , Suite 6062 , Room 437 Hanover , NH 03755-1419 Phone : -LRB-603-RRB- 646-2106 Resources Notes for New Graduate Students -LRB- pdf -RRB- by Prof. Sean Smith Course Transfer Policy -LRB- pdf , docx , transfer credit application -RRB- Advice for Potential Graduate Students Requirements for all degrees Course Descriptions from the ORC Last updated : March 6 , 2015 PhD Program MS Program 4 +1 MS in CS with Digital Arts MS in CS with Digital Arts Apply Courses Graduate Life Current Students Alumni Professors share All Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Literatures Asian and Middle-Eastern Studies Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American , Latino and Carribean Studies Linguistics and Cognitive Science Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women 's and Gender Studies My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Connect With Us Facebook iTunes U Twitter YouTube flickr Copyright © 2015 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy A-Z Index Contact Department of Computer Science Undergraduate Graduate Research What 's New People Jobs Back What You Will Learn The Major Modified Majors Computer Science Minors Digital Arts Minor 4 +1 MS in CS with Digital Arts Honors Program Courses Upcoming Class Schedule Prizes CS Jobs and Internships Considering Graduate School ? ","Back PhD Program MS Program 4 +1 MS in CS with Digital Arts MS in CS with Digital Arts Apply Courses Graduate Life Current Students Alumni Professors Back Faculty Publications Faculty Research Areas Labs Projects Technical Reports Annual Research Symposium Job Openings Back News and Events Media Back CS Faculty Positions and Other Jobs All Faculty Openings at Dartmouth Back Previous Winners Back Expectations Back Amulet : Computational Jewelry Approximate Nearest Neighbour Searching Digital Image Forensics FG Family-Based Protein Design Green Lite Dartmouth MCMC and the Theory of Computing Multimodal Protein Structure Price and Allocation Algorithms Reconstructing Ancient Egyptian Tombs Robotic Origami Folding Smartphone Sensing Towards Effective PKI Trajectories for Robots Trusted Hardware Trustworthy Health and Wellness Visual Learning Back Emily Whiting at TED-x-BeaconStreet Students Phone in Feelings BASIC at 50 Animation = Art + Science Computers , Proteins , and Life What 's a Picture Worth ? "],"Itoeflcode":["3351","78"]}