{"ORGANIZATION":["CS - Admissions Requirements | Georgia Tech - College of Computing Skip","Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing Menu Close About Facts & Rankings Support the College History College Administration Faculty Distinctions Buildings & Facilities Maps & Directions Job Opportunities Create Job Opportunity Contact Us Academics Admissions & Financial Aid Degree Programs Bachelor","Studies College Advising Distance Learning International Study Schools Computer Science Interactive Computing Computational Science & Engineering Community The GT Computing Community Your Life Here Office of Outreach , Enrollment & Community Student Organizations Career Development Internships","Co-ops Career Fairs Startups & Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Tutoring Assistance Alumni Community Outreach Research Research Areas Research Centers and Initiatives Research Groups and Labs Undergraduate Research News & Events Social Media Calendar Upcoming Events Media Center News Publications People Faculty Staff Advisory Board Support Contact Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr Google Plus LinkedIn Pinterest Search Enter","GT Home Home Academics Degree Programs","Studies Computer Science Ph.D.","Computer Science","Computer Science","GPA","TOEFL","Institute 's Graduate Admissions Office","Academics Admissions & Financial Aid Degree Programs Bachelor","SCS Apply Now Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Visitor Parking Information Directions to Campus GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Barnes & Noble","Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Office of the Dean Office of the Senior Associate Dean Academic Administration Assessment and Quantitative Services Communications Development Financial Services Operations Outreach","Community Technology Services Organization","TSO -RRB- Computing Instruction Schools School of Computer Science School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Interactive Computing","GT Computing Degree Programs Schools People Student Life Social Media News","Visit Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue","Georgia Tech Maps"],"LOCATION":["United States","M.S.","Atlanta","GA"],"DATE":["December 15th","at least one year"],"Igre":["80 % , 90 + % , 90 + % respectively on the verbal , quantitative and analytical sections"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"PERSON":["H. Venkateswaran"],"PERCENT":["80 %","90 + %","90 + %"],"Sentences":["Ph.D. in CS - Admissions Requirements | Georgia Tech - College of Computing Skip to main content Georgia Institute of Technology College of Computing Menu Close About Facts & Rankings Support the College History College Administration Faculty Distinctions Buildings & Facilities Maps & Directions Job Opportunities Create Job Opportunity Contact Us Academics Admissions & Financial Aid Degree Programs Bachelor 's Degrees Minors Master 's Degrees Ph.D. . ","Studies College Advising Distance Learning International Study Schools Computer Science Interactive Computing Computational Science & Engineering Community The GT Computing Community Your Life Here Office of Outreach , Enrollment & Community Student Organizations Career Development Internships and Co-ops Career Fairs Startups & Entrepreneurship Mentoring Program Tutoring Assistance Alumni Community Outreach Research Research Areas Research Centers and Initiatives Research Groups and Labs Undergraduate Research News & Events Social Media Calendar Upcoming Events Media Center News Publications People Faculty Staff Advisory Board Support Contact Georgia Tech Home Map Directory Offices Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr Google Plus LinkedIn Pinterest Search Enter your keywords You are here : GT Home Home Academics Degree Programs Ph.D. . ","Studies Computer Science Ph.D. . ","Program Ph.D. in CS - Admissions Requirements The application deadline for the Ph.D. in Computer Science is December 15th . ","The basic requirements for admission to the program are as follows : General Graduate Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- scores are required . ","Recently , accepted applicant scores have averaged 80 % , 90 + % , 90 + % respectively on the verbal , quantitative and analytical sections . ","Scores from the Computer Science subject test OR any other area test are recommended , but not required . ","The desirable minimum undergraduate GPA is 3.5 \/ 4.0 . ","The Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- test is required for candidates whose native language is not English and who have not studied in the United States for at least one year . ","The required minimum is 600 -LRB- paper test -RRB- or 250 -LRB- computer test -RRB- ; however , most candidates are well above this score . ","Completion of the online application The application requires three recommendation letters from people closely acquainted with the student about academic competence . ","Letters from the academic community are preferred . ","In general , there are many more qualified applicants than there are places in the program . ","The challenge for the College every year is to select a class from a very qualified pool . ","The College looks for compelling reasons to admit candidates . ","We welcome all pertinent information that would assist us in making an objective and informed decision on your admission . ","All application materials should be submitted to the Institute 's Graduate Admissions Office and must be received by the application deadline to ensure adequate consideration of your application . ","* Note that our Master 's -LRB- M.S. -RRB- program is separate from our Ph.D. program . ","If the eventual degree you seek is a Ph.D. , you will need to apply directly to the doctoral program . ","Ph.D. candidates are typically offered a research or teaching assistantship which includes a stipend and tuition remission . ","The Master 's program does not offer financial aid to the majority of students . ","Aid will be based on qualifications for the program , not need . ","Academics Admissions & Financial Aid Degree Programs Bachelor 's Degrees Master 's Degrees Minors Ph.D. . ","Studies Distance Learning International Study College Advising Questions ? ","Contact : H. Venkateswaran Associate Chair for Graduate Studies , SCS Apply Now Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Visitor Parking Information Directions to Campus GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum College of Computing Resources Office of the Dean Office of the Senior Associate Dean Academic Administration Assessment and Quantitative Services Communications Development Financial Services Operations Outreach , Enrollment and Community Technology Services Organization -LRB- TSO -RRB- Computing Instruction Schools School of Computer Science School of Computational Science and Engineering School of Interactive Computing Learn More @ GT Computing Degree Programs Schools People Student Life Social Media News and Events Ask a Question or Visit Us Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue , Atlanta , GA 30332 Phone : 404-894-2000 Intranet Contact Us Careers at Georgia Tech Maps and Directions GT Home Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment © 2015 Georgia Institute of Technology "],"Igpa":["3.5"],"Itoefl":["600 -LRB- paper test -RRB- or 250 -LRB- computer test -RRB-"]}