{"ORGANIZATION":["Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Skip","Search Site People Menu About SEAS History Leadership Teaching Areas Directory Visit Us Employment Opportunities Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Courses Apply Faculty & Research People Research Interests Centers & Initiatives Undergraduate Research News & Events Calendars & Colloquia For the Media Offices & Services Office of the Dean Computing Human Resources Student Affairs Finance More Offices","Harvard GSAS","ETS GRE","GRE","GRE","AB","Harvard College","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences","GSAS","GSAS","GSAS","GSAS Admissions Checklist","Harvard","Cambridge\/Boston Life After Harvard FAQs Graduate Student Data Funding & Scholarship Special Students & Visiting Fellows Application Checklist Contact Graduate Student Videos Send","Harvard SEAS 29 Oxford Street Cambridge","Harvard University Trademark Notice Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook YouTube RSS News Tumblr LinkedIn","Fellows of Harvard College Faculty","Lecturer Positions - Postdoctoral & Fellowship Positions"],"LOCATION":["C.V.","MA"],"DATE":["2014"],"MONEY":["$ 105.00 Supplemental Data"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"Igre":["3451","3451"],"Sentences":["Application Checklist | Harvard School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Skip to main content Search form Search Site People Menu About SEAS History Leadership Teaching Areas Directory Visit Us Employment Opportunities Academics Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs Courses Apply Faculty & Research People Research Interests Centers & Initiatives Undergraduate Research News & Events Calendars & Colloquia For the Media Offices & Services Office of the Dean Computing Human Resources Student Affairs Finance More Offices ... Make a Gift Learn how your gift supports innovative teaching and cutting-edge research at SEAS . ","Home Prospective Graduates Application Checklist Application Checklist The completed and submitted Harvard GSAS Application ; select program `` Engineering and Applied Sciences . '' ","The statement of purpose C.V. or Resume . ","Three letters of recommendation . ","Your transcripts . ","Please upload copies of all transcripts to the Academic Background section of the online application . ","Additional academic information should be uploaded to the Additional Academic Background section as needed . ","Official ETS GRE revised General Test score report . ","The code is 3451 . ","* The general GRE test is required for all applicants to our PhD and masters programs . ","The GRE subject test is not required , but is recommended -LRB- especially for international students -RRB- . ","* AB\/SM Applicants -LRB- current AB students in Harvard College students only -RRB- : The GRE test is recommended , but not required , for applicants to the AB\/SM program . ","Official ETS TOEFL test score report . ","The code is 3451 . ","* TOEFL scores are required for applicants whose native language is other than English and who do not hold a Bachelor degree or its equivalent from an institution at which English is the language of instruction . ","The application fee of $ 105.00 Supplemental Data form -LRB- becomes available after application is submitted -RRB- . ","NOTES : We do not require an interview as part of the application process and we can not offer applicants the opportunity for in person interview with the admissions staff . ","Attending a SEAS information session is the best way to have your questions answered in person . ","Information session dates can be found here . ","When requesting official score reports , indicate the receiving institution as Harvard University Graduate School of Arts and Sciences -LRB- GSAS -RRB- , Code 3451 . ","Leave the department code blank . ","Please do not send multimedia-based documents or files , theses , or academic papers . ","We recommend listing such achievements on your C.V. or Resume . ","GSAS Admissions Checklist SEAS Applicants are also responsible for fulfilling the GSAS admission requirements . ","Please visit the GSAS Admissions Checklist for more information . ","Questions ? ","Visit the SEAS Frequently Asked Questions webpage . ","Prospective Graduates Apply to SEAS What can I study ? ","Why study at Harvard ? ","Cambridge\/Boston Life After Harvard FAQs Graduate Student Data Funding & Scholarship Special Students & Visiting Fellows Application Checklist Contact Graduate Student Videos Send feedback on this page Harvard SEAS 29 Oxford Street Cambridge , MA 02138 Harvard University Trademark Notice Privacy Policy Twitter Facebook YouTube RSS News Tumblr LinkedIn © 2014 President and Fellows of Harvard College Faculty , Researcher , and Lecturer Positions - Postdoctoral & Fellowship Positions - Staff Positions "]}