{"ORGANIZATION":["Students | Johns Hopkins University Full-Time Graduate Programs","Home Degree Programs Programs of Study Apply Application Process International Students Combined\/Concurrent Degree Student Visiting Graduate Students and Visiting Graduate Scholars Final Official Documents Diversity Fellowships Engineering Fellowships Boggs Fellowship Bromery Fellowship Graduate Diversity Fellows Program Admission & Privacy Policy Apply Now Cost of Attendance Tuition and Fees Financial Assistance Admitted Students Newly Admitted Students Housing Living","Contact us International Students International","ECE","Johns Hopkins University","University","TOEFL","Graduate Admissions and Enrollment Office","IELTS Global Recognition System","Educational Testing Service","TOEFL","University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations -LRB- Cambridge ESOL","The British Council","Johns Hopkins University","Krieger School of Arts and Sciences","Whiting School of Engineering Country","USA","TOEFL","TOEFL Services","Educational Testing Service","TOEFL","TOEFL","Visiting Graduate Scholars Final Official Documents Diversity Admission & Privacy Policy Apply Now The Johns Hopkins University | Full-time Graduate Studies in Arts & Sciences and Engineering Graduate Admissions and Enrollment Office"],"LOCATION":["Baltimore","Australia","Princeton","New Jersey","Princeton","New Jersey","U.S.","Baltimore"],"DATE":["at least four weeks"],"PERSON":["Johns Hopkins","Shriver Hall"],"Sentences":["International Students | Johns Hopkins University Full-Time Graduate Programs in Arts and Sciences and Engineering Search Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home Degree Programs Programs of Study Apply Application Process International Students Combined\/Concurrent Degree Student Visiting Graduate Students and Visiting Graduate Scholars Final Official Documents Diversity Fellowships Engineering Fellowships Boggs Fellowship Bromery Fellowship Graduate Diversity Fellows Program Admission & Privacy Policy Apply Now Cost of Attendance Tuition and Fees Financial Assistance Admitted Students Newly Admitted Students Housing Living in Baltimore New International Students Welcome Week for New Students Graduate and Postdoctoral Affairs How do I submit my Intent to Enroll form ? ","Visit Us FAQs Contact Us Email Us Staff I want to : Apply now Ask a question Contact us International Students International Students Only For all foreign academic work we strongly recommend that you submit a professional credential evaluation from one of our recommended resources : One Earth , WES , or ECE . ","Credential evaluations allow the departments to better assess your academic records . ","These evaluations do not replace the transcript , you are still required to upload these documents as instructed . ","English Proficiency Johns Hopkins University requires graduate students to have adequate English proficiency for their course of study . ","Graduate students must be able to read , speak , and write English fluently upon their arrival at the University . ","Successful study demands the understanding oral lectures and taking comprehensive notes during lectures . ","Applicants whose native language is not English must submit proof of their proficiency in English before they can be offered admissions and before a visa certificate can be issued . ","Johns Hopkins prefers an IELTS Academic Band Score equal to 7 , or a minimum score of 600 -LRB- paper-based -RRB- , 250 -LRB- computer-based -RRB- , and 100 -LRB- internet-based -RRB- on the Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- . ","Results should be sent directly to the Graduate Admissions and Enrollment Office by either the IELTS Global Recognition System or the Educational Testing Service -LRB- ETS -RRB- which administers TOEFL . ","International English Language Testing System -LRB- IELTS -RRB- The IELTS examination is offered jointly by University of Cambridge ESOL Examinations -LRB- Cambridge ESOL -RRB- , The British Council and IDP : IELTS Australia . ","Information about the IELTS , its test centers and times are found at www.ielts.org . ","IELTS Institution Name : Johns Hopkins University , Krieger School of Arts and Sciences , Whiting School of Engineering Country : USA . ","Applicant should contact the test center where they took the test directly and request that test scores be sent electronically using the IELTS system . ","All IELTS test centers worldwide are able to send scores electronically . ","In addition , IELTS International applicants must upload a copy of their score through the application . ","Visiting graduate students and visiting graduate scholars who can not obtain a TOEFL bulletin and registration form locally should write well in advance of their intended test date to : TOEFL Services , Educational Testing Service , P.O. Box 6151 , Princeton , New Jersey 08541-6151 , U.S.A. Applications for taking the examination must be received in Princeton , New Jersey , at least four weeks prior to the date on which the test is given . ","For more up-to-date information , applicants should visit the TOEFL Web site at www.ets.org\/toefl\/ TOEFL Institution Code : 5332 . ","Conditions for a waiver of this requirement can be found here . ","You are able to request English proficiency test waiver within the application.Please note : For those currently enrolled in a degree program in the U.S. , a degree must be conferred within two semesters at the time of application . ","Financial Support Documents : If admitted and once you have submitted your intent to enroll you will receive an email from OIS providing you with instruction on how to submit your documents if applicable . ","Application Process International Students Combined\/Concurrent Degree Student Visiting Graduate Students and Visiting Graduate Scholars Final Official Documents Diversity Admission & Privacy Policy Apply Now The Johns Hopkins University | Full-time Graduate Studies in Arts & Sciences and Engineering Graduate Admissions and Enrollment Office , Shriver Hall 28 | 3400 North Charles Street | Baltimore , MD 21218 Phone : -LRB-410-RRB- 516-8174 | Fax : -LRB-410-RRB- 516-0780 "],"Itoeflcode":["5332"],"Itoefl":["100"]}