{"ORGANIZATION":["MIT EECS Resources Login Search","Research Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Research Interests : Faculty & non-Faculty Supervisors Academic Information Who 's Teaching What Masterworks 2015 Program Objectives People Faculty & Advisors Staff Alumni Student Groups News & Events In the Media Announcements Calendar Newsletter Outreach Industrial Connection Program VI-A MEng","MIT EECS Resources Login Search","Research Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Research Interests : Faculty & non-Faculty Supervisors Academic Information Who 's Teaching What Masterworks 2015 Program Objectives People Faculty & Advisors Staff Alumni Student Groups News & Events In the Media Announcements Calendar Newsletter Outreach Industrial Connection Program VI-A MEng","EECS International Women 's Technology Program Sections Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Admissions","Degree Programs Graduate Office Materials TQE - Students & Graduate Counselors Graduate Research Financial","Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department","GRE","GPA","MIT","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","MIT Electrical Engineering & Computer Science | Room"],"LOCATION":["U.S.","Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge","MA"],"DATE":["the middle of September","at least two years","spring","Sept. , 2015","December 15 , 2014"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"Ideadline":["December 15"],"Sentences":["Dear Prospective Applicant - READ THIS | MIT EECS Skip to main content Header Menu About Contact Quick Links Whos Teaching What EECS Course UPDATES MIT EECS Rooms Faculty positions in MIT EECS Resources Login Search form Search Main menu Research Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Research Interests : Faculty & non-Faculty Supervisors Academic Information Who 's Teaching What Masterworks 2015 Program Objectives People Faculty & Advisors Staff Alumni Student Groups News & Events In the Media Announcements Calendar Newsletter Outreach Industrial Connection Program VI-A MEng . ","Thesis Program Check out MISTI MISTI global seed funding - 2014-15 DEECS EECS International Women 's Technology Program Header Menu About Contact Quick Links Whos Teaching What EECS Course UPDATES MIT EECS Rooms Faculty positions in MIT EECS Resources Login Search form Search Main menu Research Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Research Interests : Faculty & non-Faculty Supervisors Academic Information Who 's Teaching What Masterworks 2015 Program Objectives People Faculty & Advisors Staff Alumni Student Groups News & Events In the Media Announcements Calendar Newsletter Outreach Industrial Connection Program VI-A MEng . ","Thesis Program Check out MISTI MISTI global seed funding - 2014-15 DEECS EECS International Women 's Technology Program Sections Academics & Admissions Undergraduate Programs Graduate Program Admissions FAQs Dear Prospective Applicant Meet some EECS graduate students Degree Programs Graduate Office Materials TQE - Students & Graduate Counselors Graduate Research Financial Support Fellowship Awards NEWS Graduate Student Awards NEWS Recent Graduates Research Interests : Faculty & non-Faculty Supervisors Academic Information Who 's Teaching What Masterworks 2015 Program Objectives Dear Prospective Applicant - READ THIS SHARE : Dear prospective applicant , Thank you for your interest in graduate study in EECS . ","For information on EECS , please visit our web page : http:\/\/www-eecs.mit.edu\/.  The Electrical Engineering and Computer Science Department does NOT require GRE scores for admission purposes . ","Admission is determined by GPA -LRB- Grade Point Average -RRB- although there is not an official cut-off , letters of recommendation -LRB- we need three of them -RRB- and a `` Statement of Purpose '' in which you write an essay detailing your research interests . ","A very strong background in math , physics , engineering , or computer science is a necessity . ","Admission for the limited number of openings is extremely competitive and each year we are forced to turn down hundreds of applicants with excellent credentials . ","Since we do not have a terminal Master 's program in EECS , everyone must apply for PhD . ","Applicants who gain admission pursue the Master 's degree on the way to the PhD . ","If a student already has a Master 's from another school , there is no need to do another Master 's degree here at MIT . ","We use an online application system which you can access by going to http:\/\/web.mit.edu and link to admission . ","The online system becomes available around the middle of September . ","Decisions on financial aid are made after admission decisions are reached . ","International students are eligible for research assistantships which pay a monthly stipend and full tuition . ","Research supervisors are determined after admission decisions are reached or shortly after registering in EECS in the Fall . ","Admitted students are also eligible for certain fellowships . ","International students must take the TOEFL exam and earn at least a score of 100 -LRB- internet-based -RRB- . ","In some cases , the TOEFL can be waived ; such as if you 've been in U.S. for at least two years , or if your country 's first language is English . ","International students can also take the IELTS exam if the TOEFL is not available to you . ","We need to see a score of ` 7 ' on this test . ","It also can be waived for the same reasons as the TOEFL . ","We do NOT offer spring term admission . ","The deadline for applying for Sept. , 2015 is December 15 , 2014 . ","Good luck with your application ! ","MIT Electrical Engineering & Computer Science | Room 38-401 | 77 Massachusetts Avenue | Cambridge , MA 02139 "],"Itoefl":["100"]}