{"ORGANIZATION":["Graduate Program North Carolina State University NC State Utility Bar Useful Links Campus Directory Libraries MyPack Portal Campus Map GIVING Search NCSU.EDU","CSC Department Menu ABOUT US Administration Annual Reports & Publications Directions Facilities Points of Interest","Faculty & Staff Awards History Photo Gallery ACADEMICS Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Course Listings Programming Certificate Information Assurance Corporate Education Program Seminars & Colloquia RESEARCH Reseach Interests","Faculty Research Areas Funded Projects Centers","Institutes","Labs , & Groups Research Brochure Technical Reports Seminars & Colloquia Faculty & Staff Awards DIRECTORIES Administration Faculty","Faculty Emeritus Faculty Graduate Faculty Research Faculty","CSC eNewsletter Department Publications Featured News Graduate News In the News Research News Undergraduate News Faculty & Staff Awards College of Engineering News OIT News NC State","Colloquia Academic Calendar NC State Calendar of Events University Holidays\/Closings EMPLOYMENT CSC Jobs Board Faculty \/ Staff \/ Internal Positions Computer Science Career Services NCSU Career Development Center Forms University Human Resources CENTERS Navigation","Non-CS Background GRE\/TOEFL Requirements Cost\/Financial Aid Opportunities Employment FAQs Info for International Students Faculty Research PhD Graduates PhD Master of Science Master of Computer Science Track in Data Science Master of Computer Science -LRB- Distance Education -RRB- Master of Science in Computer Networking Master of Science in Computer Networking -LRB- Distance Education","Contact Graduate Program News","The Computer Science","ETS","Graduate School","NC State","Graduate School","GRE","ETS","CGPA","Academic Record Applicants","NC State University","NCSU","Graduate School","Graduate School","Computer Science Reasons","N.C. State Upload","Computer Science","Computer Science","The Online Recommendation Submission Center","Computer Science","GradWatch","Computer Science","NC State Students Wishing to Transfer to Computer Science Students","NC State","NC State","Computer Science","COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING NC State University Copyright © 2015 Department of Computer Science"],"LOCATION":["US","N.C.","US","Raleigh","NC"],"DATE":["a week"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"Iaddress":["Department of Computer Science 890 Oval Drive , Campus Box 8206 - Raleigh , NC 27695-8206"],"Sentences":["NCSU\/CSC : Graduate Program North Carolina State University NC State Utility Bar Useful Links Campus Directory Libraries MyPack Portal Campus Map GIVING Search NCSU.EDU google search computer science Navigation : CSC Department Menu ABOUT US Administration Annual Reports & Publications Directions Facilities Points of Interest -LSB- PDF -RSB- Faculty & Staff Awards History Photo Gallery ACADEMICS Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Course Listings Programming Certificate Information Assurance Corporate Education Program Seminars & Colloquia RESEARCH Reseach Interests by Faculty Research Areas Funded Projects Centers , Institutes , Labs , & Groups Research Brochure Technical Reports Seminars & Colloquia Faculty & Staff Awards DIRECTORIES Administration Faculty Full Professors Associate Professors Assistant Professors Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Graduate Faculty Research Faculty Lecturers Staff Undergraduate Students Graduate Students PhD Students Student Organizations Alumni Strategic Advisory Board Mailing Lists Who do I see about ... Search directories NEWS CSC eNewsletter Department Publications Featured News Graduate News In the News Research News Undergraduate News Faculty & Staff Awards College of Engineering News OIT News NC State SYS News CSC RSS Feeds EVENTS CSC Web Calendar Seminars and Colloquia Academic Calendar NC State Calendar of Events University Holidays\/Closings EMPLOYMENT CSC Jobs Board Faculty \/ Staff \/ Internal Positions Computer Science Career Services NCSU Career Development Center Forms University Human Resources CENTERS Navigation : Contact Us CONTACT US Graduate Program - Application Procedure Graduate Home Application Procedure Application Deadlines Prerequisites \/ Non-CS Background GRE\/TOEFL Requirements Cost\/Financial Aid Opportunities Employment FAQs Info for International Students Faculty Research PhD Graduates PhD Master of Science Master of Computer Science Track in Data Science Master of Computer Science -LRB- Distance Education -RRB- Master of Science in Computer Networking Master of Science in Computer Networking -LRB- Distance Education -RRB- Academic Calendars People Some Facts ... Who to Contact Graduate Program News The Graduate School The Graduate Handbook Important notes for applicants The Computer Science department wishes to attract outstanding applicants . ","Before beginning the application process , we ask that you note several items intended to improve your overall experience . ","Our application process is entirely electronic ; the department does not accept paper documents . ","Recommendations must be submitted by providers via the electronic recommendation system prior to submission of the application . ","Applicants must order electronic reporting of test results from ETS . ","Do not upload copies of test reports . ","Transcripts -LRB- except N.C. State transcripts -RRB- must be uploaded by the applicant and conform to the department 's specifications . ","Documents not required by the department , the Graduate School , or the university for admissions purposes should not be uploaded . ","Prerequisites for Study Applicants for graduate study are expected to be prepared for successful graduate study at the time of admission , with a strong background in math and computer science . ","The following background is typical : two - or three-semester calculus sequence -LRB- at NC State : MA141 , MA241 , MA242 -RRB- linear algebra -LRB- MA305 or MA405 -RRB- probability and statistics -LRB- ST370 or MA421 -RRB- object-oriented programming -LRB- CSC116 and CSC216 -RRB- data structures -LRB- CSC316 -RRB- computer organization and assembly language -LRB- CSC236 -RRB- operating systems -LRB- CSC246 -RRB- discrete math -LRB- CSC226 -RRB- algorithms or automata theory -LRB- CSC333 -RRB- For more information , see Prerequisites\/Students with Non-CS Backgrounds . ","Applying Applications are submitted electronically to the Graduate School . ","Additionally , the department requires that supplemental information be submitted by the applicant using a separate online system called GradWatch . ","Applications are not processed until all of the following items have been received : Graduate School online application Transcripts or academic record GRE General test report -LRB- from ETS -RRB- TOEFL or IELTS report -LRB- from ETS\/IELTS -RRB- Statement of Purpose Curriculum vitæ or resume -LRB- optional , but highly recommended -RRB- Letters of Recommendation Supplemental information -LRB- areas of interest , and CGPA -RRB- The online application system utilizes abbreviations and codes to designate the graduate degree programs offered . ","To specify our non-thesis masters -LRB- MCS -RRB- or distance education masters -LRB- MCS-DE -RRB- , select `` Computer Science - MR '' or `` Computer Science - Distance Track - MR '' respectively from the dropdown menu under `` Desired Program . '' ","If choosing one of our computer networking programs -LRB- traditional classroom or distance education -RRB- , be certain the program you select from the dropdown menu correctly reflects your departmental choice -LRB- `` Computer Networking - Computer Sci - MS '' or `` Computer Networking - Computer Sci Distance Track - MS '' -RRB- . ","Transcripts or Academic Record Applicants should upload an acceptable electronic copy of a scanned transcript or academic record for each post-secondary school listed in the educational history section of the online application . ","Transcripts must comply with the department 's Transcript Specifications and Instructions for Uploading . ","This includes examples of academic records that will not be accepted . ","The purpose of these instructions is that it must be possible to read and verify the contents of transcripts . ","Applicants listing NC State University on their education history do not need to upload a NCSU transcript themselves ; this will be done for them by the Graduate School , usually within a week after submission of the application . ","Note : The Graduate School requires the GPA -LRB- grade point average -RRB- of US applicants to be at least 3.0 to be considered for admission , unless there are extenuating circumstances . ","Statement of Purpose Applicants are requested to write a statement of purpose up to 500 words in length , addressing the following points : Highlights of your qualifications Reasons for seeking a graduate degree in Computer Science Reasons for applying to N.C. State Upload your statement of purpose using the `` Personal Statement '' upload button in the online application . ","curriculum vitæ A curriculum vitæ or CV is a convenient summary of your accomplishments . ","We encourage you to upload a two-page CV , along with other application materials , as this can be very helpful in evaluating an applicant . ","The contents of the CV often include : degrees earned -LRB- institution , major , date , GPA -RRB- employment honors\/awards received research experience and publications significant projects service Letters of Recommendation Three recommendations are required . ","These should be prepared by persons qualified to evaluate the applicant 's potential to succeed in graduate studies in Computer Science . ","Letters from professors in Computer Science or a closely related discipline who have supervised the student in a class or research are the most relevant . ","Recommendations are submitted electronically by references you designate as part of the online application process . ","The Online Recommendation Submission Center and the applicant-managed Recommendation Provider List -LRB- which has both request and reminder functions -RRB- , make it possible to be sure your references submit their recommendations before you submit your application . ","Supplemental Information All applicants to Computer Science graduate programs are asked to provide the following supplemental information . ","The instructions for providing this supplemental information , using a system called GradWatch , will be provided by email once the application has been submitted . ","The supplemental information requested is : The areas of interest of the applicant The grade point average -LRB- s -RRB- or cumulative percent average -LRB- s -RRB- for the applicant 's undergraduate -LRB- and graduate , if applicable -RRB- degree -LRB- s -RRB- . ","Deferral of Enrollment Admitted applicants may defer enrollment and advanced deposits for up to one year from the original entry term . ","However , the Computer Science department will not approve a deferral request unless an advanced deposit is paid by the acceptance deadline stated in the applicant 's admission letter . ","To request deferral , send an email to csc_gradadmissions@ncsu.edu, stating your full name , applicant ID # , and the term to which you want to defer your enrollment and deposit . ","See our FAQs -LRB- search keyword `` defer '' -RRB- for more details . ","Current NC State Students Wishing to Transfer to Computer Science Students interested in admission through transfers from other departments at NC State or through co-major applications should contact the department 's Graduate Admissions Specialist for instructions , if they meet the following requirements : they have the requisite undergraduate computer science and math coursework , or their graduate-level equivalents , required for admission -LRB- see Prerequisites for Application -RRB- ; they have completed at least two semesters of graduate study at NC State ; they have a GPA of at least 3.6 ; and -LRB- for students wishing to transfer into a thesis degree , MS or PhD -RRB- they have secured a tentative agreement from a Computer Science faculty to supervise and fund their research . ","Footer . ","COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING NC State University Copyright © 2015 Department of Computer Science 890 Oval Drive , Campus Box 8206 - Raleigh , NC 27695-8206 About this Web site "],"Igpa":["3.0","3.6"]}