{"ORGANIZATION":["Graduate School Jump","Home About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life","Princeton Professional Development Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Search","Search Graduate School Princeton University Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying","Princeton Deadlines","Princeton","Council of Graduate Schools","Davis International Center","Princeton Deadlines","Information Princeton University © 2015 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall","NJ"],"LOCATION":["Princeton","Princeton"],"DATE":["Fall 2015","December 1 , December 15","December 31","March 15","no later than March 15","April 15","April 15 The Graduate School","30 days"],"MONEY":["$ 90"],"Ideadline":["December 1 , December 15 , and December 31"],"Sentences":["Deadlines and Fees | Graduate School Jump to navigation Main menu Home About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Graduate School Princeton University Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying to Princeton Deadlines and Fees Application Fee Waivers Statement of Academic Purpose Resume\/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Prerequisite Tests English Language Tests Statement of Financial Resources Apply Check Your Application Status Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Request for Information Deadlines and Fees The application deadlines for admission beginning Fall 2015 are on December 1 , December 15 , and December 31 . ","Deadline applies to all applicants applying to one of these departments for the receipt of application and all supporting material . ","Prospective applicants are encouraged to explore our fields of study catalog to view deadline information by academic department and program . ","Earlier applications are encouraged and late applications are not accepted . ","All applicants must submit a $ 90 application fee or apply for an application fee waiver . ","Other Important Dates March 15 Admission decisions are emailed to all applicants no later than March 15 . ","Decisions will not be released by telephone or fax . ","If you are put on the waitlist it might be closer to April 15 before receiving your final admission decision . ","If your email changes , please let us know by contacting us at gs@princeton.edu . ","April 15 The Graduate School must receive your submitted acceptance by this date or your offer of admission may be rescinded . ","Additionally an offer of admission may be rescinded based on the Policy on Rescinding an Offer of Admission . ","Princeton is a member of the Council of Graduate Schools and subscribes to its agreement regarding this reply date . ","You can only accept one offer of admission to an institution . ","In the event that you accept an offer and decide to change your mind you will need to be released from the institution of your original acceptance before accepting another offer . ","To request a release from Princeton , please contact us at gs@princeton.edu and include your reason for this request . ","In order to accept an offer of admission you must submit your acceptance online . ","Contacting the department will not serve as admission offer acceptance and hold your place . ","Please print a copy of the Admission Offer for your records . ","If you are declining our offer of admission , your system access will be terminated within 30 days . ","In addition , if you are applying for a visa you are required to submit a copy of the Admission Offer directly to the Davis International Center with your visa application . ","Applying to Princeton Deadlines and Fees Application Fee Waivers Statement of Academic Purpose Resume\/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Prerequisite Tests English Language Tests Statement of Financial Resources Apply Check Your Application Status Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Request for Information Princeton University © 2015 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall , Princeton , NJ , 08544 Contact : gs@princeton.edu Princeton University Graduate School "]}