{"Igrecode":["2672"],"ORGANIZATION":["Graduate School Jump","Home About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life","Princeton Professional Development Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Search","Search Graduate School Princeton University Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying","Princeton Deadlines and Fees Statement of Academic Purpose Resume\/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades","Princeton","Princeton University","Educational Testing Services","Recommendation Letters","Princeton","Graduate School","CollegeNET","Graduate School","CollegeNET Help Desk","Princeton Deadlines and Fees Statement of Academic Purpose Resume\/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades","Information Princeton University © 2015 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall","NJ"],"LOCATION":["Princeton","Princeton","Princeton"],"DATE":["fall 2015","fall 2016","September 2015","an additional two weeks"],"Sentences":["Apply | Graduate School Jump to navigation Main menu Home About Admission Academics Costs & Funding Diversity Life at Princeton Professional Development Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Events Policies News Forms Administrative Portal Search form Search Graduate School Princeton University Prospective Students Incoming Students Current Students Apply Applying to Princeton Deadlines and Fees Statement of Academic Purpose Resume\/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Prerequisite Tests English Language Tests Statement of Financial Resources Apply File Upload Requirements Check Your Application Status Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Request for Information Apply Please note the application deadline for fall 2015 has passed . ","If you wish to apply for fall 2016 the application will be open in September 2015 . ","Before applying for admission , please read the Applying to Princeton page . ","Prior to beginning your application , please also review the helpful tips below : Application materials should only be uploaded in the appropriate spaces provided and under the additional information section of the application . ","Princeton does not accept paper application materials , with the exception of architecture and music samples . ","Please refer to the upload requirements webpage for specific instructions on uploading materials . ","Please also be sure to review any additional department requirements that may be required for your chosen department . ","All test scores MUST be sent directly from the test center to Princeton University -LRB- Institution Code 2672 -RRB- . ","Department codes are not used at Princeton and are not required by Educational Testing Services -LRB- ETS -RRB- . ","Please refer to the Prerequisite Tests webpage for specific information on the tests . ","Please allow extra time for test scores to be received and reflected on your application checklist . ","Do not wait for your recommenders to submit their recommendations as they have an additional two weeks after your deadline to submit their recommendation letter . ","See the Recommendation Letters webpage for more information . ","Before you submit your application , double-check your work . ","We will not accept revised documents . ","Once an application is submitted , it is considered final . ","If you have not submitted your application , you can log in and manage your account . ","Once you submit your application , you can log back into your application and check the status . ","Please note that duplicate materials and items that are not required as part of your application , will not appear on your checklist . ","Checklists are only updated after you submit your application . ","To apply for admission to Princeton 's Graduate School , you must use our application through CollegeNET . ","All application materials must be submitted electronically and are not to be mailed to the Graduate School or the department you are applying to , unless otherwise specified . ","The CollegeNET Help Desk is available from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. PST . ","If you are having difficulty applying online email help@applyweb.com for assistance . ","Please allow 24 hours for a response . ","When contacting the Help Desk , please include your user name or order ID number , full name , email address and phone number . ","Apply Now ! ","Resources Nondegree Applicants Applying to Princeton Deadlines and Fees Statement of Academic Purpose Resume\/Curriculum Vitae Recommendation Letters Transcripts Fall Semester Grades Prerequisite Tests English Language Tests Statement of Financial Resources Apply File Upload Requirements Check Your Application Status Nondegree Applicants Admitted Student Information Request for Information Princeton University © 2015 The Trustees of Princeton University Princeton University Graduate School Clio Hall , Princeton , NJ , 08544 Contact : gs@princeton.edu Princeton University Graduate School "],"TIME":["7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. PST","24 hours"]}