{"ORGANIZATION":["University","COMPUTER SCIENCE Navigation Purdue CS Facebook Purdue CS Twitter CS Giving News CS Portal College of Science About Us Welcome Message Conte Lecture Series Annual Reports Awards Diversity PhD Recipients Contact Us Calendar People Faculty","Graduate Courses Study Abroad Research Centers","Touch Jobs PhD Recipients Lawson Building Outreach Contact Us Summer Camps Corporate Partner Programs Current Partners Recruiter Information Opportunity Update Announcements Employment Events Internships Graduation Survey Careers Resources Business Office Campus Map Facilities FTP Server Help Lawson","CS PhD Recipients Admission Application Steps Requirements Process Useful Links Orientation Curriculum Doctoral Master","Computer Science Graduate Program","Purdue University","Attendance Fall Deadline","CS Application Steps","GRE","GRE","University","Contact Us Resources News Videos Sitemap Business Office Faculty Positions 2014-15 Search","Faculty Search Calendar CS Seminars Science Seminars Give Want","College of Science","N. University Street West Lafayette","Purdue University","Purdue University","College of Science Webmaster"],"LOCATION":["Purdue","U.S.","Indiana"],"DATE":["December 15th","October 1st","their first year","Dec 10 , 2014 9:18 AM Purdue University Department of Computer Science West Lafayette","2014-15","2014"],"Igre":["not required"],"Ideadline":["December 15th","October 1st"],"Sentences":["Purdue University : : Computer Science : : Admission : Application Steps < PURDUE.EDU APPLY Visit COMPUTER SCIENCE Navigation Purdue CS Facebook Purdue CS Twitter CS Giving News CS Portal College of Science About Us Welcome Message Conte Lecture Series Annual Reports Awards Diversity PhD Recipients Contact Us Calendar People Faculty \/ Visitors Faculty Awards Staff Graduate Students Student Organizations Printable Directory Academics Future Students Undergraduate Graduate Courses Study Abroad Research Centers and Institutes Funding Seminars Technical Reports Alumni Distinguished Alumnus Past Distinguished Alumni Outstanding Alumni Past Outstanding Alumni Keep in Touch Jobs PhD Recipients Lawson Building Outreach Contact Us Summer Camps Corporate Partner Programs Current Partners Recruiter Information Opportunity Update Announcements Employment Events Internships Graduation Survey Careers Resources Business Office Campus Map Facilities FTP Server Help Lawson Building Building Emergency Plan Libraries Policies Strategic Plan Graduate Program GoBoiler Internship Online MS in CS PhD Recipients Admission Application Steps Requirements Process Useful Links Orientation Curriculum Doctoral Master 's Program CS&E Stat\/CS Master 's Computational Life Sciences Financial Support Assistantships Fellowships Current Students TA Handbook Terms of Assistantship Resources First Day in Class Policies Evaluation Teaching Tips Admission : Application Steps Thank you for your interest in the Computer Science Graduate Program at Purdue University . ","We are looking forward to assisting you with your application . ","Cost of Attendance Fall Deadline is December 15th -LRB- main admission term -RRB- Spring Deadline is October 1st Deadlines for online MS in CS Application Steps write a Statement of Purpose ask your references to submit Letters of Recommendation online request official Transcripts but mail only upon request complete an Electronic Graduate School Application . ","-- IMPORTANT : give the name of your Undergraduate Institution ; upload scans of your official transcripts in English ; more ... enter your TOEFL , IELTS , or PTE Academic scores into the online application before submitting it and report to Purdue -LRB- if applicable -RRB- ; submit your electronic graduate school application after at least two of your recommenders submitted their letters ; pay the Application Fee GRE scores are not required for admission and do not need to be submitted . ","U.S. citizens and permanent residents who want to apply for an NSF Fellowship in their first year of graduate studies are recommended to take the GRE . ","Omission of requested information or falsification in the application forms or supporting documents or any determination by a competent authority of academic or other dishonesty will be grounds for denial of admission , revocation of admission , or expulsion from the University . ","Contact Us : grad-info@cs.purdue.edu Last Updated : Dec 10 , 2014 9:18 AM Purdue University Department of Computer Science West Lafayette , Indiana 47907 \u2022 Phone : -LRB-765-RRB- 494-6010 \u2022 Fax : -LRB-765-RRB- 494-0739 \u2022 Contact Us Resources News Videos Sitemap Business Office Faculty Positions 2014-15 Search is open 2014-15 `` Big Data '' Search 2014-15 Visiting Faculty Search Calendar CS Seminars Science Seminars Give Want to make an impact ? ","Consider a gift to the College of Science . ","Click here for more ... Planned Giving -- Is a planned gift the perfect option for you ? ","Contact Us 305 N. University Street West Lafayette , IN 47907 Phone : -LRB-765-RRB- 494-6010 Fax : -LRB-765-RRB- 494-0739 Contact Us Copyright © 2014 , Purdue University , all rights reserved . ","Purdue University is an equal access\/equal opportunity university . ","If you have trouble accessing this page because of a disability . ","please contact the College of Science Webmaster . ","Some content on this site may require the use of a special plug-in or application . ","Please visit our plug-ins page for links to download these applications . "]}