{"ORGANIZATION":["of Computer Science","Rice University","Registrars Office Graduate funding Office of Research & Graduate Studies Areas","Computer Science","Computer Science Program Overview Ph.D.","Rice 's Computer Science Department","Computer Science","Computer Science","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","GRE","GRE"],"LOCATION":["Houston","Houston TX","Houston TX"],"DATE":["Fall 2015","January 6 , 2015 MCS Program Application","February 1 , 2015","Spring 2015","November 1 , 2014","1892"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"PERSON":["Rice","Rice","Rice","Rice","Rice","Duncan Hall"],"Ideadline":["January 6 , 2015","February 1 , 2015","November 1 , 2014"],"Sentences":["Department of Computer Science : Why Join Us Application Process The Application Process Graduate Study in Computer Science Why Rice University ? ","What degree programs does computer science offer ? ","What areas of research are the faculty focused on ? ","How do I apply ? ","What financial support can I expect ? ","What is graduate life at Rice like ? ","What is Houston like ? ","Where have Rice computer science graduates gone ? ","Courses FAQs Contact us Apply online Registrars Office Graduate funding Office of Research & Graduate Studies Areas of research Course catalog Questions : gradapp@cs.rice.edu The following information is designed to assist you in applying for admission to the graduate program in Computer Science at Rice . ","Please direct all correspondence regarding graduate applications to the department 's graduate admissions e-mail box , gradapp@cs.rice.edu . ","Information and inquiries directed to individual faculty members will not be processed . ","Master of Computer Science Program Overview Ph.D. . ","Program Overview Online Application for Graduate Admissions Course Catalog Frequently Asked Questions The remainder of this page is a compendium of information on the details of applying for graduate study in Rice 's Computer Science Department . ","Deadlines for Fall 2015 Admission If you have a Bachelor 's degree in Computer Science or a related field and wish to continue on for your Ph.D. in Computer Science , please apply directly to the Ph.D. program without applying to the Masters Program . ","Ph.D. . ","Program Application deadline : January 6 , 2015 MCS Program Application deadline : February 1 , 2015 To be considered for one of the above programs , you must submit ALL materials online by the posted deadline . ","Late applications will not be considered . ","Please note : When you apply online , please do not mail duplicate materials to the department as this may slow down the processing of your application . ","Deadline for Spring 2015 Admission MCS Program Application deadline : November 1 , 2014 Application Requirements The following documents are required to complete your application package : Letters of recommendation At least three letters of recommendation are required . ","The online application system will require you to submit letter writer names and email addresses . ","The system will then send an email to each of your letter writers with a secure link to the online system , allowing them to submit letters on your behalf . ","Official transcripts Electronic copies of transcripts from each college or university you have attended are required . ","If you are offered admission to Rice , you will be required to have official copies of each transcript submitted directly to the department . ","TOEFL Any applicant whose native language is not English must take the TOEFL . ","Students coming from American institutions of higher education may request that the TOEFL score requirement be waived . ","The TOEFL can be taken in one of three forms -- paper , computer , or internet , and minimum TOEFL scores are as follows : paper-based -- 600 , computer-based -- 250 , and internet-based 90 . ","The IELTS -LRB- International English Language Testing System -RRB- may be substituted for the TOEFL . ","TSE Although the Test of Spoken English -LRB- TSE -RRB- is not required of non-native English speakers , it is strongly recommended . ","Special consideration is given to applicants providing this score . ","GRE All applicants must submit GRE standard test scores . ","Applicants for the MS\/Ph . ","D. program may also submit advanced test scores for mathematics , computer science , or engineering if the test is available in their country of residence . ","The advanced test is recommended but not required of MCS applicants ; however , scores will be considered if submitted . ","Although most applicants for our graduate programs have backgrounds in computer science or math , the graduate admissions committee encourages highly motivated students with undergraduate degrees in other disciplines to apply for admission . ","Financial Aid All doctoral students at Rice are fully supported by graduate fellowships or research assistantships . ","Students who gain external support receive an additional internal supplement . ","For more information , visit the Graduate Funding web site . ","© Copyright 2015 Rice University Mailing Address : PO Box 1892 , MS-132 , Houston TX 77251-1892 Physical Address : 3122 Duncan Hall , 6100 Main Street , Houston TX 77005 "],"Itoefl":["paper-based -- 600 , computer-based -- 250 , and internet-based 90"]}