{"Igrecode":["4704"],"ORGANIZATION":["Stanford Computer Science Skip to Main Content Area Contact Us Directions School of Engineering Stanford University CS 50th Anniversary Agenda Directions and Parking Lodging Registration About Us Contact Us Directions Giving","Memoriam Education Courses Undergraduate Masters PhD Admissions Research Events & Seminars Faculty Profiles Projects Computer Forum Wiki Education Courses Stanford Wellness Network Undergraduate Masters Current Students Choosing","Non-Stanford Students Honors Co-op Program Admissions Joint CS MS\/MBA Degree FAQ PhD PhD Orientation Slide PhD Requirements First-Year Research Rotation Program","Current Listing Breadth Area Approvers Qualifying Exams Graduate Student Forms Admissions Deadlines Coterminal","MS programs Application Requirements Checklist Current Stanford","FAQ","CS Contact us Home Checklist Application","CS","Stanford","CS","CS","Computer Science Department","Stanford","Academic Records the University","Stanford University Stanford","The Computer Science Dept.","Admissions Office","GRE","Stanford","ETS","Stanford","Stanford Institution","GRE","TOEFL","Stanford University","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","Stanford","Stanford Institution","TOEFL","Current Stanford","Stanford University","Stanford"],"LOCATION":["Serra Mall","U.S.","Serra Mall","California"],"DATE":["five years","the last five years","no earlier than 18 months"],"MONEY":["$ 125"],"Irecommendation":["3"],"Iaddress":["Computer Science Graduate Admissions Gates Building , Room 196 353 Serra Mall , Stanford University Stanford , CA 94305-9015"],"Sentences":["Checklist | Stanford Computer Science Skip to Main Content Area Contact Us Directions School of Engineering Stanford University CS 50th Anniversary Agenda Directions and Parking Lodging Registration About Us Contact Us Directions Giving to CS Newsletters Strategic Plan Jobs Faculty Opening Teaching Faculty Opening Lecturer Opening Postdoctoral Opening People Faculty Staff Students Alumni In Memoriam Education Courses Undergraduate Masters PhD Admissions Research Events & Seminars Faculty Profiles Projects Computer Forum Wiki Education Courses Stanford Wellness Network Undergraduate Masters Current Students Choosing a Specialization Choosing Classes Academic Forms Joint CS MS \/ Law Degree Joint CS MS\/MBA Degree FAQ Prospective Students Courses Available to Non-Stanford Students Honors Co-op Program Admissions Joint CS MS\/MBA Degree FAQ PhD PhD Orientation Slide PhD Requirements First-Year Research Rotation Program CS300 Seminar Clearing Breadth Requirements : Course waiver process Current Listing Breadth Area Approvers Qualifying Exams Graduate Student Forms Admissions Deadlines Coterminal program deadline Ph.D. and MS programs Application Requirements Checklist Current Stanford students Additional\/Change of Degree Coterminal Program Ph.D. . ","Minor Reapplying MS versus Ph.D. . ","FAQ 's Visiting CS Contact us Home Checklist Application checklist : Completed Online Application must be submitted by the CS application deadline . ","The online application can be found here . ","Application fee of $ 125 : to be paid in the online application with a credit card . ","Statement of Purpose - Your Statement of Purpose should be concise , focused , and well written . ","It should describe succinctly your reasons for applying to the proposed program at Stanford , your preparation for this field of study , research interests , future career plans , and other aspects of your background and interests which may aid the admissions committee in evaluating your aptitude and motivation for graduate study . ","The Statement of Purpose must be no more than two pages in length , single-spaced . ","It will be submitted as part of the online application . ","3 Recommendation Letters - In the online application , you will be asked to identify your recommenders and their email addresses . ","Please notify your recommenders that they will receive an email prompt to submit their recommendation online . ","CS only accepts online recommendations through the application system ; CS can not accept mailed , emailed or faxed recommendations . ","You must submit a minimum\/maximum of 3 recommendation letters and they must be submitted through the online application system . ","We recommend that at least 2 of these letters be from academic sources . ","Please have your recommender write candidly about your qualifications , potential to carry on advanced study in the field specified , intellectual independence , capacity for analytical thinking , ability to organize and express ideas clearly , and potential for teaching . ","In describing such attributes as motivation , intellect , and maturity , specific examples are more useful than generalizations . ","For more information on submitting letters of recommendation visit here . ","Resume - Please submit your resume in the online application . ","Please be sure to include any publications here . ","Supplemental form - This form is part of the online application . ","Please be sure to list any publications and your website on this form AND on your resume -LRB- CV -RRB- . ","Upload your resume -LRB- CV -RRB- on the Document Uploads , Confirmation & Submission '' section -LRB- page 15 -RRB- and a copy of your NDO transcript on the Additional Information 's section of the online application . ","2 sets of official transcripts - You are required to upload copies of your transcripts into the online application . ","You must also mail 2 OFFICIAL copies of your transcripts to the Computer Science Department -LRB- including transcripts from any NDO classes taken at Stanford -RRB- . ","For more information about what Academic Records the University requires , please go to : https:\/\/studentaffairs.stanford.edu\/gradadmissions\/international-applicants\/transcripts . ","Send transcripts to : Computer Science Graduate Admissions Gates Building , Room 196 353 Serra Mall , Stanford University Stanford , CA 94305-9015 The Computer Science Dept. only requires that you send hard copies of your official transcripts -LRB- in addition to uploading copies online -RRB- . ","Please DO NOT mail any other paper documents to the Admissions Office such as publications , or financial statements\/documents , as they will not be reviewed by the admissions committee . ","The committee reviews all graduate applications online , and will have no access to copies of any documents sent via post . ","Please note that we will not upload documents emailed to us to your applicant file . ","GRE : All applicants are required to take the GRE General Test before the application deadline and within five years of the application deadline . ","Scores must be from an examination taken within the last five years . ","Be sure to take the test in time for your scores to be received at Stanford by the application deadline . ","Self-report all available scores on your online application and have ETS report your official scores to Stanford immediately . ","Stanford Institution code : 4704 -LRB- no department code is required -RRB- . ","GRE website : http:\/\/www.gre.org . ","TOEFL : Stanford University requires the Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- from all applicants whose native language is not English . ","The Test of Written English -LRB- TWE -RRB- portion of the TOEFL is not required . ","Applicants who have completed a four-year bachelor 's degree or a two-year master 's program -LRB- or its equivalent -RRB- in the U.S. or at an institution where English is the main language of instruction are not required to take the TOEFL . ","For more information on TOEFL requirements , please see : https:\/\/studentaffairs.stanford.edu\/gradadmissions\/applying\/exams . ","TOEFL test may be taken no earlier than 18 months prior to the application deadline . ","Be sure to take the test in time for your scores to be received at Stanford by the application deadline . ","Stanford Institution code : 4704 -LRB- no department code is required -RRB- . ","TOEFL website : http:\/\/www.toefl.org . ","` Application Requirements up Current Stanford students ' © Stanford University . ","353 Serra Mall , Stanford , California 94305 . ","-LRB-650-RRB- 723-2300 . ","Terms of Use | Copyright Complaints "],"Itoeflcode":["4704"]}