{"Igrecode":["6003"],"ORGANIZATION":["of Admissions | Texas A&M University","Admitted High School Courses Cost of Attendance National","Majors & Transfer Course Sheets Transfer Course Equivalency Cost","Admitted Programs & Degrees How to Pay INTERNATIONAL International Freshman International Transfer International Graduate International Student Services","Post-Baccalaureate Readmit Admissions Colleges & Majors Prospective Student Centers Aggieland Brazos Valley Central Texas Corpus Christi Dallas\/Fort Worth El Paso Houston Laredo Rio Grande Valley San Antonio Events & Programs Contact Admissions","Admitted High School Courses Cost of Attendance National","Majors & Transfer Course Sheets Transfer Course Equivalency Cost","Admitted Programs & Degrees How to Pay INTERNATIONAL International Freshman International Transfer International Graduate International Student Services","Post-Baccalaureate Readmit Admissions Colleges & Majors Prospective Student Centers Aggieland Brazos Valley Central Texas Corpus Christi Dallas\/Fort Worth El Paso Houston Laredo Rio Grande Valley San Antonio Events & Programs Contact Admissions INTERNATIONAL","Texas A&M University","Texas A&M University","Texas A&M University","Mays MBA Program","Mays Graduate Programs","Fee Office","Texas A&M University","Official Transcripts and Records","Bachelor Degree Equivalencies","Office of Admissions","The Ministry of Education","Texas A&M","National Clearing House","United States Embassy","Consulate","International Admissions Processing Office of Admissions Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station","GRE","Educational Testing Service","Texas A&M University","TOEFL","TOEFL","American Samoa Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Canada","Texas A&M University for GRE","TOEFL","Texas A&M University Central Texas","Office of Admissions","Texas A&M University","University","Office of Admissions","Universal Identification Number","Texas A&M University","International Admissions Processing Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station","TDSHS","Office of Admissions","TAMU","Applicant Information System","EPSY","EDTC","TOEFL","Texas A&M University Code","Departmental Codes","The Admissions Processing Office","Applicant Information System","Office of Admissions Application Alternate Payment Form","Postal Service -RRB- International Admissions Processing Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station","Hand Delivery -RRB- Admissions Processing Texas A&M University General Services Complex 750 Agronomy Road","TAMU College Station","979-RRB - 845-1060 Texas A&M University","University","Texas A&M University","Texas A&M","University","University","University","University","University","Graduate Department Graduate","Graduate Departments","Mays MBA Program","Mays Graduate Programs","AIS Howdy About Texas A&M Calendar - Academic Calendar - Campus Course Catalogs Financial Aid Honors Programs Housing Media New Student Conferences Registrar Scholarships Student Life Tuition \/ Fees Information","Corps of Cadets High School Counselors Non-Degree Seekers Parents Post-Baccalaureates Readmits Veterans © Texas A&M University All Rights Reserved College Station","Admissions@tamu.edu Campus Safety | Nondiscrimination Notice Privacy & Security"],"LOCATION":["United States","U.S.","U.S.","United States","SPEEDE","United States","United States","TX","Quebec","Dominica Grenada Grand Cayman Guyana Ireland Jamaica Liberia New Zealand Sierra Leone Trinidad\/Tobago United Kingdom U.S.","U.S.","TX","Texas","Princeton","NJ","NJ","NJ","TX","TX","Texas"],"DATE":["five years","two years","all years","at least eight weeks","under age 22","5 years","6103 Princeton","6151 Princeton","Saturday","Sunday","Saturday","the next business day"],"MONEY":["$ 90","$ 90"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"Iaddress":["International Admissions Processing Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station , TX 77842-4002"],"Ideadline":["does not have specific deadlines"],"Sentences":["Office of Admissions | Texas A&M University - International Graduate Search for : FRESHMAN How to Apply How to be Admitted High School Courses Cost of Attendance National Scholars How to Stay on Target After You 're Admitted Checklist State of Texas Uniform Admission Policy TRANSFER How to Apply How to be Admitted Colleges , Majors & Transfer Course Sheets Transfer Course Equivalency Cost of Attendance After You 're Admitted Checklist Transfer Programs GRADUATE How to Apply How to be Admitted Programs & Degrees How to Pay INTERNATIONAL International Freshman International Transfer International Graduate International Student Services English Language Proficiency Sponsor Information Frequently Asked Questions Other Applicant Types Non-Degree Seeking Post-Baccalaureate Readmit Admissions Colleges & Majors Prospective Student Centers Aggieland Brazos Valley Central Texas Corpus Christi Dallas\/Fort Worth El Paso Houston Laredo Rio Grande Valley San Antonio Events & Programs Contact Admissions FRESHMAN How to Apply How to be Admitted High School Courses Cost of Attendance National Scholars How to Stay on Target After You 're Admitted Checklist State of Texas Uniform Admission Policy TRANSFER How to Apply How to be Admitted Colleges , Majors & Transfer Course Sheets Transfer Course Equivalency Cost of Attendance After You 're Admitted Checklist Transfer Programs GRADUATE How to Apply How to be Admitted Programs & Degrees How to Pay INTERNATIONAL International Freshman International Transfer International Graduate International Student Services English Language Proficiency Sponsor Information Frequently Asked Questions Other Applicant Types Non-Degree Seeking Post-Baccalaureate Readmit Admissions Colleges & Majors Prospective Student Centers Aggieland Brazos Valley Central Texas Corpus Christi Dallas\/Fort Worth El Paso Houston Laredo Rio Grande Valley San Antonio Events & Programs Contact Admissions INTERNATIONAL GRADUATE How to Apply International Graduate Applicant Definition : is not a citizen or permanent resident of the United States -LRB- or applicant for permanent residency -RRB- . ","is a student who holds a bachelor 's or professional degree -LRB- or equivalent -RRB- . ","has not previously attended Texas A&M University . ","-LRB- International students with a bachelor 's degree from Texas A&M University or who have previously studied at Texas A&M University in a degree-seeking program should apply using the `` U.S. graduate '' application . -RRB- ","Required Documents On-line Application . ","A completed Apply Texas Application . ","Apply online at applytexas.org . ","The name on your application must match your name as it appears in your passport . ","Applicants to the Mays MBA Program should use the on-line application specific to that program . ","Applicants to the Mays Graduate Programs -LRB- MS , MLERE , PHD -RRB- should use the on-line application specific to those programs . ","Application Fee . ","A nonrefundable $ 90 application fee . ","The application fee may be paid by check , money order or approved credit card . ","Applicants who wish to pay by credit card may do so as part of the online application . ","If you are unable to pay the fee online , you may call the Fee Office -LRB-979-RRB- 458-5155 . ","Waiver of the $ 90 international application fee is not available . ","Checks or money orders -LRB- U.S. dollars -RRB- should be made payable to Texas A&M University . ","Checks or money orders are accepted provided they display an agency bank in the United States and have magnetic ink character recognition -LRB- MICR -RRB- routing numbers at the bottom . ","Official Transcripts and Records . ","To ensure that your official transcripts and other supporting documents are processed in a timely and efficient manner , please include the appropriate Document ID Sheet with all documents you submit in support of your application . ","If you wish to submit your application fee by check or money order please use the alternate payment form . ","Please view a brief List of Bachelor Degree Equivalencies by Country . ","If you do not find your country listed and are unsure of your degree equivalency , please contact the Office of Admissions at admissions@tamu.edu . ","Official transcripts are required from each post-secondary university or college attended . ","An official statement of the award of the degree or diploma is required for each degree completed . ","College work from one institution posted on the transcript of another institution will not be accepted . ","Applicants from an institution that does not issue a transcript in English must submit the native language transcript with an official English translation . ","Official translations are prepared by a recognized translation service and include all original seals and\/or signatures . ","Consolidated transcripts or provisional mark-sheets are not considered official . ","Please ask the registrar to send individual mark-sheets that list grades earned in each term . ","Transcripts are considered official if they have an original signature of a school official or an original school seal . ","Accepted signatures include the Registrar , Principal , Controller of Examinations , or The Ministry of Education . ","Photocopies or other duplications of a transcript , such as notarized copies , faxed , or scanned documents are not considered official . ","Many universities can use the electronic format . ","Electronic transcripts can be processed much faster than paper transcripts . ","Texas A&M will accept transcripts sent electronically through AVOW , SPEEDE , eSCRIP-SAFE or National Clearing House . ","Include official transcript -LRB- s -RRB- from all post-secondary institutions attended with an original signature of a school official or an original school seal . ","If any transcripts are in a language other than English , an official translation from the school , a recognized translator or translation verified by a United States Embassy or Consulate must accompany the native language transcript . ","We will accept copies of official transcripts from other countries provided the copies are verified by the United States institution the applicant is currently attending from students enrolled in the United States . ","Faxed , emailed and\/or notarized scanned copies will not be accepted . ","Evaluations are not accepted as transcripts . ","If the registrar will not release your transcripts to you in a sealed envelope , transcripts may be sent by the registrar directly to : International Admissions Processing Office of Admissions Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station , TX 77842-4002 Official Test Scores . ","Required test scores -LRB- GRE or GMAT -RRB- should be sent directly from the Educational Testing Service to Texas A&M University and be taken within five years . ","Graduate Record Examinations -LRB- GRE -RRB- Graduate Management Admissions Test -LRB- GMAT -RRB- Applicants whose native language is not English are required to submit proof of English proficiency , which may be satisfied by : a minimum TOEFL score -LRB- from a test date within two years -RRB- of : 550 for paper-based testing -LRB- p-BT -RRB- or 80 internet-based testing -LRB- i-BT -RRB- , or Applicants who are citizens of the following countries will be exempt from the TOEFL requirement : American Samoa Australia Bahamas Barbados Belize Canada -LRB- except Quebec -RRB- Dominica Grenada Grand Cayman Guyana Ireland Jamaica Liberia New Zealand Sierra Leone Trinidad\/Tobago United Kingdom U.S. Pacific Trust A minimum IELTS score of 6.0 overall band , or Completing all years of a Bachelor 's degree or higher at a U.S. accredited university . ","-LRB- Subject to departmental approval . -RRB- ","Test scores must be sent directly from the testing agency to be considered official . ","The institutional code for Texas A&M University for GRE and TOEFL score reporting is 6003 -LRB- Not Texas A&M University Central Texas . ","That is a separate institution . -RRB- ","There is no institutional code for the IELTS examination , therefore please use the Office of Admissions address listed below when requesting your scores be sent to Texas A&M University . ","Tests should be taken at least eight weeks prior to the appropriate application deadline to ensure timely receipt and processing of results . ","We will use your highest test score from one test date . ","Copies of test scores are not considered official , but they may help the University locate your official test scores and are therefore useful when the application is processed . ","You may verify receipt of your official scores by contacting the Office of Admissions at the address below -LRB- e-mail is preferred -RRB- . ","You will need to include your name -LRB- as given on test -RRB- , date of birth , Universal Identification Number -LRB- UIN -RRB- , type of test , date test was taken and date you requested the scores to be sent to Texas A&M University . ","International Admissions Processing Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station , TX 77842-4002 IF ADMITTED - Bacterial Meningitis Immunization . ","TEC 51.9192 requires all students under age 22 entering an institution of higher education to provide current proof of vaccination against bacterial meningitis -LRB- an immunization given within 5 years of the date of intended enrollment -RRB- or meet certain requirements for declining such a vaccination . ","The original TDSHS form required for students declining the vaccination must be submitted to the Office of Admissions . ","Students may not register for classes until this requirement is satisfied . ","Department-Specific Required Documents The following items are department specific and should be submitted to your individual department . ","Letters of Recommendation . ","Graduate applicants should provide three recommendations from individuals who are familiar with your academic achievement and potential . ","If you have been out of school for a number of years and are unable to contact former professors , you may submit non-academic references -LRB- e.g. , employers -RRB- . ","Please be aware that TAMU does not automatically contact the references you may have listed on your ApplyTexas application . ","Applicants to certain majors may access the electronic letter of recommendation system available via the Applicant Information System -LRB- AIS -RRB- or through the Howdy ! ","Portal . ","Applicants to CPSY , EPSY , SPSY , and EDTC are advised to contact their department for instruction on submitting recommendations . ","Statement of Purpose or Essay . ","Applicants are required to submit a Statement of Purpose . ","This may be accomplished by completing the Essay portion of the Apply Texas application online at www.applytexas.org . ","Applicants who prefer to send the Statement of Purpose separately may do so by submitting it in a word document format . ","-LRB- Please check with your department of interest for any additional application requirements . -RRB- ","Testing Information for Graduate Studies Test bulletin of information and registration form may be obtained by writing to : Graduate Record Examinations -LRB- GRE -RRB- Educational Testing Service P.O. Box 6000 Princeton , NJ 08541-6000 -LRB-609-RRB- 771-7670 www.ets.org\/gre Graduate Management Admissions Test -LRB- GMAT -RRB- Educational Testing Service P.O. Box 6103 Princeton , NJ 08541-6103 -LRB-609-RRB- 771-7330 www.mba.com\/the-gmat TOEFL Box 6151 Princeton , NJ 08541-6151 -LRB-609-RRB- 771-7100 www.ets.org\/toefl International English Language Testing System -LRB- IELTS -RRB- www.ielts.org Texas A&M University Code is 6003 . ","Departmental Codes are not used . ","Deadlines The Admissions Processing Office does not have specific deadlines for Graduate Readmission applications . ","However , you should check with your department of interest about departmental deadlines . ","When to Apply as an International Graduate : Graduate deadlines vary by major . ","Please see the list of majors in the application itself for deadline information regarding a specific major . ","How to Submit Your Documents Some documents may be uploaded via the Applicant Information System -LRB- AIS -RRB- which you can access after you have submitted your application for admission and have received your Universal Identification Number -LRB- UIN -RRB- . ","To ensure that your official transcripts and other supporting documents are processed in a timely and efficient manner , please include the appropriate Document ID Sheet with all documents you submit in support of your application . ","If you wish to submit your application fee by mail , please use the Office of Admissions Application Alternate Payment Form . ","Please submit the following items by the appropriate deadline . ","For documents that must be sent via postal mail , please use the addresses listed below : -LRB- Postal Service -RRB- International Admissions Processing Texas A&M University P.O. Box 40002 College Station , TX 77842-4002 -LRB- Overnight or Hand Delivery -RRB- Admissions Processing Texas A&M University General Services Complex 750 Agronomy Road , Suite 1601 0200 TAMU College Station , TX 77843-0200 -LRB-979-RRB- 845-1060 Texas A&M University is closed on Saturday and Sunday . ","Credentials scheduled by overnight mail carriers for Saturday delivery will be delivered and accepted by the University on the next business day . ","Acts of Dishonesty All students applying to Texas A&M University are expected to follow the Aggie Code of Honor which states `` An Aggie does not lie , cheat or steal nor tolerate those who do . '' ","Applicants found to have misrepresented themselves or submitted false information on the application will receive appropriate disciplinary action . ","Pursuant to the 2013-2014 undergraduate catalog and Texas A&M student rule 24.4.1 , acts of dishonesty include but are not limited to : Withholding material information from the University , misrepresenting the truth during a University investigation or student conduct conference , and\/or making false statements to any University official . ","Furnishing false information to and\/or withholding information from any University official , faculty member , or office . ","Forgery , alteration , or misuse of any University document , record , or instrument of identification . ","The submission of false information at the time of admission or readmission is ground for rejection of the application , withdrawal of any offer of acceptance , cancellation of enrollment , dismissal or other appropriate disciplinary action . ","How to be Admitted Review Admits by Graduate Department Graduate admission decisions are made by each of the individual Graduate Departments and are competitive ; thus , you should contact the specific department or program prior to applying to discuss your intent to apply . ","The decision to admit an applicant to a program of study leading to a graduate degree is the shared responsibility of an academic department , an intercollegiate faculty -LRB- where applicable -RRB- and\/or a college . ","Programs & Degrees How to Pay Applicants to the Mays MBA Program should use the on-line application specific to that program . ","Applicants to the Mays Graduate Programs -LRB- MS , MLERE , PHD -RRB- should use the on-line application specific to those programs . ","Apply Application Status - AIS Howdy About Texas A&M Calendar - Academic Calendar - Campus Course Catalogs Financial Aid Honors Programs Housing Media New Student Conferences Registrar Scholarships Student Life Tuition \/ Fees Information for : Corps of Cadets High School Counselors Non-Degree Seekers Parents Post-Baccalaureates Readmits Veterans © Texas A&M University All Rights Reserved College Station , Texas 77843 Admissions Customer Service MON - FRI | 8AM - 5PM CST -LRB-979-RRB- 845-1060 | Admissions@tamu.edu Campus Safety | Nondiscrimination Notice Privacy & Security Accessibility | Webmaster "],"Itoefl":["550","80"]}