{"ORGANIZATION":["Apply - Graduates | Department of Computer Science","Illinois Engineering","ILLINOIS Primary links Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MS & Ph.D.","Programs Degree Requirements Graduate Fellowships & Awards Research Application Deadlines & Steps to Apply Additional Application Materials for International Students Only Final Application Checklist Application Evaluation Process MS in Bioinformatics Program Professional Masters -LRB- Online & On-Campus -RRB- Application Process & Deadlines for Current Illinois Graduate Students Non-Degree Certificate Program General University","Department Requirements for Applicants Graduate Recruitment Fairs Campus and Community Life Places","Alumni Research News Corporate Partners About Us Faculty Positions Staff Positions Directory Giving Ways to Give Calendar Twitter Facebook LinkedIn CS Store Prospective Students Home '' Prospective Students '' Graduate Programs '' MS & Ph.D.","M.S.","Department of Computer Science Grad Academic Office University of Illinois 201 North Goodwin","CS Department","University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign","Interest Form Complete the CS Interest","General Record Examination","GRE","General Record Examination","Department of Computer Science 201 North Goodwin Avenue Urbana , IL 61801-2302 University of Illinois College of Engineering"],"LOCATION":["Illinois","US","Urbana","RA"],"DATE":["December 15th","one month","December 15th","December 15th","March 15th","2015 The Board of Trustees"],"MONEY":["$ 70","$ 90"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"Igre":["recommended , but not required"],"Iaddress":["Department of Computer Science Grad Academic Office University of Illinois 201 North Goodwin , 1210 Siebel Center Urbana , IL 61801"],"Ideadline":["December 15th","December 15th"],"Sentences":["Application Deadlines and Steps to Apply - Graduates | Department of Computer Science at Illinois Engineering at Illinois MY.CS Search this site : Illinois.eduComputer Science at ILLINOIS Primary links Prospective Students Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs MS & Ph.D. . ","Programs Degree Requirements Graduate Fellowships & Awards Research Application Deadlines & Steps to Apply Additional Application Materials for International Students Only Final Application Checklist Application Evaluation Process MS in Bioinformatics Program Professional Masters -LRB- Online & On-Campus -RRB- Application Process & Deadlines for Current Illinois Graduate Students Non-Degree Certificate Program General University and Department Requirements for Applicants Graduate Recruitment Fairs Campus and Community Life Places to Explore Current Students Courses Alumni Research News Corporate Partners About Us Faculty Positions Staff Positions Directory Giving Ways to Give Calendar Twitter Facebook LinkedIn CS Store Prospective Students Home '' Prospective Students '' Graduate Programs '' MS & Ph.D. . ","Programs '' Application Deadlines and Steps to Apply - Graduates Application Deadlines and Steps to Apply - Graduates The M.S. and Ph.D. program are a fall entry only . ","The application deadline is December 15th . ","All applications materials must reach our office by this deadline . ","Note : We strongly recommend that you and your recommenders do not wait until the deadline to submit your application or letters of recommendations . ","Server traffic around the deadline may cause technical difficulties . ","It is highly recommended to have all application materials submitted one month prior to the deadline to expedite admission decisions . ","All parts of the application , including the application fee , must be received by the application deadline , December 15th . ","Late applications will not be accepted . ","In addition , incomplete applications will be subject to denial . ","In addition , all admission decisions will be communicated via email to the email address provided in the application . ","1 . ","Complete the university 's Online Application Note : Please do not send additional materials -LRB- e.g. publications , photographs , videos , CDs , or portfolios -RRB- . ","These items are not reviewed during the admissions process . ","2 . ","Pay the application fee The university 's application fee is $ 70 for US citizens and permanent residents and $ 90 for all other applicants . ","The fee must accompany the application by credit card payment with the web application . ","Application fees are non-refundable . ","3 . ","Transcripts All applicants must send official transcripts for all completed university coursework and certification of degree -LRB- for international students only -RRB- for all completed degree programs directly to the department . ","Department of Computer Science Grad Academic Office University of Illinois 201 North Goodwin , 1210 Siebel Center Urbana , IL 61801 Transcripts must be received by the application deadline , December 15th . ","Official transcripts may be sent by the applicant and be considered as official if received in a sealed\/signed envelope . ","If transcripts are submitted electronically , they must be submitted through a password-protected secure web portal to be considered official . ","The recipient e-mail address for submitting electronically is admissions -LSB- at -RSB- cs -LSB- dot -RSB- illinois -LSB- dot -RSB- edu . ","Electronic transcripts emailed as PDF files to admissions -LSB- at -RSB- cs -LSB- dot -RSB- illinois -LSB- dot -RSB- edu will not be accepted as official . ","Please note that submitting scanned transcripts with your online application does not replace the requirement to submit official transcripts directly to the CS Department . ","Applicants will not have a `` complete '' application until official transcripts are received . ","Current students from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign do not need to order official transcripts as the department can access them . ","Note : For international mail , we suggest you send through a delivery service that can track your shipment . ","4 . ","Letters of Recommendation Applicants are required to have three letters of recommendation submitted . ","It is recommended that letters of recommendation be from academics . ","They can either be your faculty , advisors , supervisors , or colleagues . ","If you have been away from academics for a significant amount of time , you may substitute non-academic references of your choice -LRB- e.g. immediate supervisors , colleagues , etc. -RRB- . ","The letters should address your academic and research abilities and your potential to be successful at graduate level academic performance . ","Individuals writing letters of recommendation on your behalf should submit their letters through the online application system . ","Any recommendations that do not follow this process may impact timely application processing . ","Please make sure recommenders complete the section on the `` Recommender 's Form '' that states `` To what extent do you recommend this applicant for admissions as a graduate student in their proposed field of study '' . ","5 . ","Statement of Purpose The statement of purpose is part of the online application form . ","This statement should include your goals and background as it relates to the field of computer science . ","It is good to include any past work history , your interests , and reasons for pursuing a graduate degree in computer science . ","Your statement will be evaluated for your conciseness , scientific research interests , leadership skills , and eloquence . ","Generally the statement of purpose is between one to two pages . ","6 . ","CV\/Resume Your CV\/resume is a part of the online application form . ","Your CV\/resume should address your education , job and research experience , remarkable achievements , publications , organizations , awards , and leadership experiences . ","This information helps the admissions committee understand your background . ","In addition , it helps when identifying applicants for RA and TA assistantships . ","7 . ","Interest Form Complete the CS Interest form -LRB- go to the `` Supplement Form '' area on this website -RRB- . ","You will have access to this form 48 hours after you submit your online application . ","You will need to enter in the same email address and birthdate that is on your application to complete the form . ","Select one primary research area of interest . ","It is highly recommended that you also select a secondary research area of interest and a third optional research area of interest . ","This helps the committee understand your top interests . ","Select a faculty member within each research area of interest you feel will best match your research interest and serve as a possible advisor . ","General Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- - General and Subject Scores 8 . ","General Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- -- Not Required The Graduate Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- general aptitude tests -LRB- Verbal , Quantitative , and Analytical -RRB- and subject test scores are recommended , but not required . ","In some cases , the scores may provide helpful supporting information . ","A photocopy of the scores may be sent directly to the department if the applicant wishes to have them considered . ","9 . ","For international students only , please see `` Additional Application Materials for International Student Only '' to complete your process . ","If your email address changes between the time you submit your application and March 15th , email your updated email address to krunck -LSB- at -RSB- illinois -LSB- dot -RSB- edu . ","Include your old email address , your new email address , your first and last name , and your Apply Yourself PIN number in the email message . ","10 . ","Check the status of your application materials to ensure all materials have been submitted . ","Department of Computer Science 201 North Goodwin Avenue Urbana , IL 61801-2302 University of Illinois College of Engineering admin -LSB- at -RSB- cs -LSB- dot -RSB- illinois -LSB- dot -RSB- edu -LRB- Contact Us -RRB- | engrit-web -LSB- at -RSB- illinois -LSB- dot -RSB- edu -LRB- Contact Webmaster -RRB- | Site Map © 2015 The Board of Trustees at the University of Illinois "],"TIME":["48 hours"]}