{"ORGANIZATION":["UCSB Computer Science Skip","UCSB Computer Science Search","UCSB","Open Positions Contact Us RESEARCH Research Areas Research Affiliations Tech Reports GSWC 2014 EDUCATION Courses Undergraduate Graduate Outreach Academic Calendars PEOPLE Faculty Researchers & Visitors Graduate Students Alumni Staff NEWS & EVENTS News Archive Events Archive Events Calendar RESOURCES Technical Support Facilities Room Reservations Emergency & Safety Travel & Reimbursement GET","Graduate Division","Department of Computer Science","UCSB Graduate Division","Graduate Division","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","Computer Science","Graduate Division","Computer Science department","University of California , All Rights Reserved"],"LOCATION":["U.S."],"DATE":["December 15th","Fall quarter","December 15 Graduate Division","February","2014"],"Igre":["no strict minimum score requirements"],"Ideadline":["December 15th"],"Sentences":["How to Apply | UCSB Computer Science Skip to main content UCSB Computer Science Search this site HOME ABOUT Chair 's Message Mission and History Why CS ? ","Why UCSB ? ","Visiting Open Positions Contact Us RESEARCH Research Areas Research Affiliations Tech Reports GSWC 2014 EDUCATION Courses Undergraduate Graduate Outreach Academic Calendars PEOPLE Faculty Researchers & Visitors Graduate Students Alumni Staff NEWS & EVENTS News Archive Events Archive Events Calendar RESOURCES Technical Support Facilities Room Reservations Emergency & Safety Travel & Reimbursement GET INVOLVED Give to CS@UCSB For Alumni How to Apply In addition to fulfilling the Graduate Division requirements for admission , the Department of Computer Science requires a bachelor 's degree in some discipline of science , engineering , or mathematics . ","Please see the information below for additional points to consider as you prepare your PhD application . ","For questions related to the online application , do n't forget to check the Frequently Asked Questions -LRB- FAQ -RRB- provided by the UCSB Graduate Division -LRB- here -RRB- . ","Online Application All applications should be submitted through the Graduate Division 's on-line application here . ","Minimum Requirements for All Graduate Applications Grade-point Average 3.0 in undergraduate study . ","For schools that do not use a 4.0 GPA system , scores will be converted to the 4.0 system . ","Note that this is not a hard limit , and we will do our best to put GPAs into context on a per-school basis . ","Graduate Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- Satisfactory performance in the verbal , quantitative , and analytical sections is required of all applicants . ","There are no strict minimum score requirements for GRE scores . ","Non-native English Speakers -LRB- or ESL Students -RRB- Students whose native language is not English must take the Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- . ","The minimum score for consideration is 100 on the Internet-based test . ","The IELTS -LRB- International English Language Testing System -RRB- is accepted as an alternative to the TOEFL . ","A minimum overall band score of 7.0 is required on the IELTS . ","Applicants who have received a bachelor 's or master 's degree from a U.S. college or university are exempt from this requirement . ","Additional Information Specific to Ph.D. . ","Admissions Students may apply directly to the Ph.D. program without a Master 's degree . ","A solid background in computer science or one or more fields of science and engineering is strongly suggested . ","Applicants to the Ph.D. program should have a grade-point average of at least 3.5 in their undergraduate study . ","Students entering this program should be committed to completing a Ph.D. . ","The department discourages students petitioning to switch to the Master 's program ; such petitions are approved only under exceptional circumstances . ","Current UCSB Graduate Students To change or add a Computer Science degree objective , please submit the Graduate Student Petition available on the Graduate Division website . ","Do not complete the on-line application . ","Submit your petition and supporting materials to the Computer Science department by the December 15th deadline . ","Petitions are reviewed along with the applications received . ","EDUCATION Courses Undergraduate Graduate Admissions Ph.D. . ","Degree M.S. Degree How to Apply Financial Support Resources FAQs Outreach Academic Calendars On-line Application Accepted for Fall quarter only . ","Application Deadline December 15 Graduate Division Application Application Status Posted February thru May View Application Status Copyright © 2014 The Regents of the University of California , All Rights Reserved . ","Site Information \u2022 Terms of Use \u2022 Privacy \u2022 User Login "],"Igpa":["3.0","3.5"],"Itoefl":["100"]}