{"Igrecode":["1839"],"ORGANIZATION":["Apply - Graduate Admissions - Computer Science and Engineering","CSE","Academics + Admissions Course Information Class Schedules & Books Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Student Visits Financial Aid Research Research Areas Labs and Centers Undergrad Research Technical Reports People Faculty Postdocs Staff All Faculty","Students Partners in Research Tech Transfer CoE Corporate Relations News + Awards News CSE","EECS Diversity & Outreach Area Information Travel and Lodging Contact Us Resources Admin Tools Computing Resources Dept Affairs Email Groups Lab Support Logos Room Scheduler Beyster Building Safety Info CoE Classrooms Donate Give Back","ECE","CSE Academics + Admissions Course Information Class Schedules & Books Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Student Visits Financial Aid Research Areas + Artificial Intelligence Applied Electromagnetics Communications Computer Architecture","VLSI Control Systems Energy Science and Engineering Integrated Circuits","VLSI Interactive Systems MEMS","Microsystems Optics","Photonics Plasma Science and Engineering Power and Energy Quantum Science and Devices Robotics and Computer Vision Signal and Image Processing Software Systems Solid-State Devices","Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Course Info Student Organizations Faculty","CSE","University of Michigan 's Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies","Rackham School","Rackham Program Online Application","Rackham Graduate School","Computer Science and Engineering","Computer Science and Engineering Ph.D.","Interactive Systems Robotics","CSE","Rackham Graduate School","GRE","CSE","University of Michigan Computer Science and Engineering Graduate Program Office 2260 Hayward","TOEFL","CSE","University of Michigan Computer Science and Engineering Graduate Program Office 2260 Hayward","ETS","GRE","GRE","GRE","ETS","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies University of Michigan 915 E. Washington St. Ann Arbor","CSE Program","CSE Prospective Students New Students Current Students ECE Program","College of Engineering University of Michigan"],"LOCATION":["Michigan","Michigan"],"DATE":["1839","5 years","1839","2 years","January","April"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"PERSON":["Rackham","Ann Arbor","Rackham","Ann Arbor","Rackham","Rackham"],"Iaddress":["Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies University of Michigan 915 E. Washington St. Ann Arbor , MI 48109-1070"],"Sentences":["How to Apply - Graduate Admissions - Computer Science and Engineering -LRB- CSE -RRB- facebook youtube linkedin twitter Academics + Admissions Course Information Class Schedules & Books Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Student Visits Financial Aid Research Research Areas Labs and Centers Undergrad Research Technical Reports People Faculty Postdocs Staff All Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Faculty Positions Industry Connect with Students Partners in Research Tech Transfer CoE Corporate Relations News + Awards News CSE Awards ECE Awards Videos Publications Events About Welcome to EECS Why EECS at Michigan ? ","EECS Diversity & Outreach Area Information Travel and Lodging Contact Us Resources Admin Tools Computing Resources Dept Affairs Email Groups Lab Support Logos Room Scheduler Beyster Building Safety Info CoE Classrooms Donate Give Back to ECE Give Back to CSE Academics + Admissions Course Information Class Schedules & Books Undergraduate Programs Undergraduate Admissions Graduate Programs Student Visits Financial Aid Research Areas + Artificial Intelligence Applied Electromagnetics Communications Computer Architecture Computer-Aided Design and VLSI Control Systems Energy Science and Engineering Integrated Circuits and VLSI Interactive Systems MEMS and Microsystems Optics and Photonics Plasma Science and Engineering Power and Energy Quantum Science and Devices Robotics and Computer Vision Signal and Image Processing Software Systems Solid-State Devices and Nanotechnology Theory of Computation Quick Links + Why EECS at Michigan ? ","Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Course Info Student Organizations Faculty Directory Faculty Positions Alumni Spotlights EECS Publications Contact EECS How to Apply -- CSE Graduate Admissions The CSE graduate program is part of the University of Michigan 's Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies . ","Prospective Master 's and Ph.D. students should submit applications through the Rackham School by following the instructions below . ","`` CSE Graduate Admissions Step 1 . ","Complete the online application Use the Rackham Program Online Application . ","You may start your application , save the information , and then return as many times as necessary before final submission . ","It is an online application that accepts uploads of all supporting documentation . ","So as to not cause a delay in processing your application , please follow these directions carefully . ","Please note that the only hard copy materials that are required are official transcripts\/marksheets , which are sent to the Rackham Graduate School . ","When completing your online application , please follow these directions carefully : Use your name -LRB- first and last\/family -RRB- as it appears on your passport or other legal documents . ","For `` Program Code , '' use : Computer Science and Engineering MS\/MSE Program : 00148 Computer Science and Engineering Ph.D. . ","Program : 00147 For `` Subplan -LRB- Major area of study -RRB- , '' enter one of the following categories . ","This helps us route your application to the faculty members who are most interested . ","Hardware Intelligent Systems Software Theory VLSI\/CAD Interactive Systems Robotics For help picking a subplan , refer to the CSE Graduate Brochure . ","Upload digital images of your transcripts according to the instructions provided in the application . ","You may cause a delay in the processing of your application if you do not include an electronic copy of your transcript -LRB- s -RRB- in the application . ","In addition , an original paper copy of your transcript -LRB- s -RRB- must be sent to the Rackham Graduate School for authentication purposes and calculating GPAs -LRB- see step # 2c below -RRB- . ","To apply for financial assistance , no separate application is required . ","Pay the application fee using a credit card . ","Unfortunately , we can not waive or defer the fee . ","Compose your statement of purpose and personal statement . ","Your statement of purpose should address your academic research interests , past research experience , and future career goals . ","Your personal statement should describe how your life experiences affected your decision to pursue a graduate degree . ","Request three letters of recommendation from people who are familiar with your academic performance and research potential . ","We recommend that at least two letters come from faculty . ","Recommendation letters should be submitted electronically through the online application , if at all possible . ","-LRB- Paper copies of your letters of recommendation are discouraged , but if you absolutely must submit a recommendation letter by postal mail , click here . -RRB- ","Please upload a copy of your GRE scores . ","If you do not have a copy to upload , please send an email to csegrad@eecs.umich.edu with the scores and percentage -LRB- broken down individually -RRB- If submitting a letter of recommendation by postal mail , you should use Rackham 's printable recommendation form . ","Have your letter writer mail the form and letter to the CSE program : University of Michigan Computer Science and Engineering Graduate Program Office 2260 Hayward ; 3909 CSE BLDG Ann Arbor , MI 48109-2121 and send a pdf of the copy when it is available . ","Please upload a copy of your TOEFL scores - for all non native speakers of English . ","If you do not have a copy to upload , please send an email to csegrad@eecs.umich.edu with the scores and percentage -LRB- broken down individually -RRB- If submitting a letter of recommendation by postal mail , you should use Rackham 's printable recommendation form . ","Have your letter writer mail the form and letter to the CSE program : University of Michigan Computer Science and Engineering Graduate Program Office 2260 Hayward ; 3909 CSE BLDG Ann Arbor , MI 48109-2121 and send a pdf of the copy when it is available . ","Step 2 . ","Request official transcripts and test scores After you complete the online application , you need to have your official test scores and transcripts delivered to Rackham . ","Have ETS send your GRE scores to institution code 1839 . ","GRE scores are valid 5 years from the date you took the test to the deadline date when you apply . ","We encouage you to take the GRE no later than one month prior to the application deadline , and preferably earlier . ","International students : Have ETS send your TOEFL scores to institution code 1839 . ","TOEFL scores are valid 2 years from the date you took the test to the deadline date when you apply . ","We encourage you to take the TOEFL no later than one month prior to the application deadline , and preferably earlier . ","Have your official transcripts , certificates , or diplomas mailed to Rackham at the address below . ","These official paper copies are required in addition to the electronic transcript images you uploaded . ","You must request these from the institutions involved . ","If you have a foreign transcript , include both the official document in the original language and an official English translation . ","Horace H. Rackham School of Graduate Studies University of Michigan 915 E. Washington St. Ann Arbor , MI 48109-1070 Please be aware that submitted documents can not be returned or forwarded . ","When we will respond The faculty begin making admission offers in January and will continue through April . ","We will notify you by letter or email as soon as a decision has been reached . ","Your application status is not available on-line . ","We are unable to send confirmation when we have received your complete application . ","However , if there 's something missing from your file that we need to make our decision , we will contact you via email . ","Decisions for admission and financial aid are made separately . ","If you are awarded departmental financial assistance , you will be notified via email . ","You will not be notified if the department declines financial aid . ","CSE Program in CSE Prospective Students New Students Current Students ECE Program in EE Prospective Students New Students Current Students ECE Program in EE : Systems Prospective Students New Students Current Students College of Engineering University of Michigan facebook youtube linkedin twitter Contact Us © The Regents of the University of Michigan "],"Itoeflcode":["1839"]}