{"ORGANIZATION":["UMD Department of Computer Science Skip","About Local Home Contact Location Log In People Faculty Faculty Awards Dept. Phonebook Faculty Staff Students As PDF University Directory Search Research Research Areas Artificial Intelligence Big Data Bioinformatics","Computational Biology Computer Systems Computer Vision Data Science Databases Graphics High Performance Computing Human Computer Interaction Numerical Analysis Programming Languages Scientific Computing Security Software Engineering Theoretical Computer Science UMIACS CfAR CLIP HCIL Maryland Cybersecurity Center","MC2 -RRB- Research Projects Education Undergraduate About Prospective Students Combined BS\/MS Program Recruiters For Current Students Advising Policies Honors Program Research","GRA Appt Form Policy Manual Looking for Academic Jobs TA Handbook Writing","CS Education for Tomorrow News & Events News Talks Events Calendar CS Video & Audio iCal Feed Newsletters Community Alumni Hall of Fame","Alumni News Corporate Partners Outreach Programs Computer Science Connect Cybersecurity Education HS Programming Contest REU Program Curriculum-in-a-Box MD Center for Women in Computing Student Groups Association for Computing Machinery -LRB- ACM -RRB- Association for Women in Computing","AWC","CS Latino Group Executive Council Grad Women Interprep S.C.O.R.E. Upsilon Pi Epsilon Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn","GRA Appt Form Policy Manual Looking for Academic Jobs TA Handbook Writing","Computer Science Department","University of Maryland , College Park","Fall","Dates Location Research Opportunities Applying for Admission Financial Information Degree Requirements Summary Student Organizations Faculty 1","Important Dates Computer Science Department Graduate Office","Univ. of Maryland 1151 A.V. Williams Building College Park","UMCP","Graduate Hills\/Graduate Gardens 3424 Tulane Drive","Office of International Services 3116 Mitchell Bldg.","Off-Campus Housing Services 1195 Stamp Student Union Bldg.","Enrollment Services Office-Graduate Admissions University of Maryland College Park Enrollment Services Operations Application for Graduate Admission Rm 0130 Mitchell Building College Park","Dates & Deadlines Fall Semester Admission Spring Semester Admission","University of Maryland","Graduate School and Computer Science Department December 15 October 1","Department","ISSS Orientation for International Students August 18-21 N\/A Computer Science Department Orientation TBA","Department","The Department","University of Maryland , College Park","University System of Maryland","Department","Data Analytics","Data Mining Bioinformatics Computational Audition Database Systems Distributed Systems Graphics and Visualization High-Performance Computing Human-Computer Interaction Location-Based Services and Search Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Networking Programming Languages Quantum Computing Scientific Computing and Numerical Analysis Security","Cryptography Software Engineering Systems Vision","Mac","Office of Information Technology","The Computer Science Department","Center for Automation Research","CfAR","Computer Vision Laboratory","The University of Maryland Institute for Advanced Computer Studies","University of Maryland System","Human-Computer Interaction Laboratory","The Institute for Systems Research","National Science Foundation Center of Excellence","VLSI","The Engineering Research Center","University","Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology","CBCB","NASA-Goddard Space Flight Center","National Institutes of Health","National Institute for Standards and Technology","Army Research Labs","National Security Agency","Computer Science Department","UMCP","GRE","GRE","TOEFL","GPA","GRE","The University of Maryland 's Graduate School","Admissions Requirements","Graduate School","Graduate School","University of Maryland","Graduate School","University of Maryland","University of Maryland","International Students and Scholars Services","The University of Maryland Graduate School","University of Maryland","Graduate Admissions Process for International","Graduate School","GRE","University of Maryland , College Park","University","Department","University of Maryland","National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowships","University of Maryland","UMCP","Department","CMSC 899 -LRB- Dissertation Research","Executive Council","The Department Council","The Education Committee","Graduate Student Government","Association for Computing Machinery","The Society of Women in Computer Science","Department","Computer Science","Faculty Footer Links University of Maryland","UMD Website User Login Department of Computer Science A.V. Williams Building","University of Maryland College Park"],"LOCATION":["M.S.","Lee Building College Park","Hyattsville","US","Washington","D.C.","National Mall","Washington","US","Washington","Maryland","Virginia","West Virginia","Shenandoah","Appalachian Mountains","Chesapeake Bay","Assateague","US","Alpha","US","College Park","M.S."],"DATE":["several weeks","the first week of March","February 15 November 15 Visit Day","March","April 15 December 15 Maryland English Institute","late August","August 31 January 25","December 11 May 10","a few weeks","March","November 2011","November 2011","November 2011","November 2011","recent years","December 15","November","the first week of March","October 1","the 2013-2014 academic year -LRB- August 17-May 31","summer","2-2 1\/2 years","5-6 years","their first year","the end of their second year","the end of their third year","3-4 years","5-6 years","five years","five years","four years","weekly"],"MONEY":["several million dollars","$ 75","18,300 - $ 19,800","$ 18,300 to $ 20,500"],"Igre":["Verbal - 580 -LRB- prior to November 2011 -RRB- or 158 -LRB- since November 2011 -RRB- , Quantitative - 780 -LRB- prior to November 2011 -RRB- or 163 -LRB- since November 2011 -RRB- , and Analytical - 5.0"],"PERSON":["Hobsons","M.S. Comp"],"Iaddress":["Computer Science Department Graduate Office , Univ. of Maryland 1151 A.V. Williams Building College Park , MD 20742"],"Ideadline":["December 15 October 1"],"Sentences":["Information for Prospective Students | UMD Department of Computer Science Skip to main content About Local Home Contact Location Log In People Faculty Faculty Awards Dept. Phonebook Faculty Staff Students As PDF University Directory Search Research Research Areas Artificial Intelligence Big Data Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Computer Systems Computer Vision Data Science Databases Graphics High Performance Computing Human Computer Interaction Numerical Analysis Programming Languages Scientific Computing Security Software Engineering Theoretical Computer Science UMIACS CfAR CLIP HCIL Maryland Cybersecurity Center -LRB- MC2 -RRB- Research Projects Education Undergraduate About Prospective Students Combined BS\/MS Program Recruiters For Current Students Advising Policies Honors Program Research Opportunities Graduate Prospective Students Current Students Graduating PhDs Online GRA Appt Form Policy Manual Looking for Academic Jobs TA Handbook Writing a Statement of Purpose Survival Guide UMD Graduate Policies UMD Graduate Forms Scholarly Papers Fellowship Opportunities Student Awards Class Web Pages Class Schedules Fall Spring Summer Winter Academic Calendar Scholarships CS Education for Tomorrow News & Events News Talks Events Calendar CS Video & Audio iCal Feed Newsletters Community Alumni Hall of Fame PhD Alumni Join The Alumni Mailing List Submit Alumni News Corporate Partners Outreach Programs Computer Science Connect Cybersecurity Education HS Programming Contest REU Program Curriculum-in-a-Box MD Center for Women in Computing Student Groups Association for Computing Machinery -LRB- ACM -RRB- Association for Women in Computing -LRB- AWC -RRB- CS DAEMON CS Latino Group Executive Council Grad Women Interprep S.C.O.R.E. Upsilon Pi Epsilon Social Media Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Giving You are here Education '' Graduate Graduate Program Prospective Students Current Students Graduating PhDs Online GRA Appt Form Policy Manual Looking for Academic Jobs TA Handbook Writing a Statement of Purpose Survival Guide UMD Graduate Policies UMD Graduate Forms Scholarly Papers Fellowship Opportunities Student Awards Information for Prospective Students Thank you for your interest in the graduate program of the Computer Science Department at the University of Maryland , College Park . ","Our graduate program is ranked among the top in the nation and in the top ten among public universities . ","Both M.S. and Ph.D degrees are offered , and almost all full-time students receive financial aid in the form of assistantships , fellowships , and grants . ","These pages give an overview of the program and describe the application process . ","Note to Fall Applicants : We generally receive over 1200 applications for the Fall semester . ","Due to this high volume , updates to the applications often take several weeks . ","Offers are expected to be made to the accepted applicants during the first week of March . ","We understand your eagerness to receive updates regarding your application . ","However , it is best to keep checking your status online and to refrain from sending emails . ","The more time we take to respond to emails , the less time we have to update the applications . ","Thank you for your understanding and your patience with the application process . ","Contents Relevant Addresses and Dates Location Research Opportunities Applying for Admission Financial Information Degree Requirements Summary Student Organizations Faculty 1 . ","Relevant Addresses and Important Dates Computer Science Department Graduate Office , Univ. of Maryland 1151 A.V. Williams Building College Park , MD 20742 Tel : -LRB-301-RRB- 405-2664 Email : csgradof -LSB- at -RSB- cs.umd.edu Web : http:\/\/www.cs.umd.edu\/Grad The Graduate School 2123 Lee Building College Park , MD 20742 Tel : -LRB-301-RRB- 405-0376 Web : http:\/\/www.gradschool.umd.edu UMCP graduate studies information , fellowship office , admissions office , etc. . ","Graduate Hills\/Graduate Gardens 3424 Tulane Drive , Apt 14 Hyattsville , MD 20783 Tel : -LRB-301-RRB- 422-0147 Web : http:\/\/www.graduatehousing.net\/ On-campus graduate housing information Office of International Services 3116 Mitchell Bldg. . ","Tel : -LRB-301-RRB- 314-7740 Web : http:\/\/www.intprog.umd.edu\/ies\/ Visa and other pertinent information for international students Off-Campus Housing Services 1195 Stamp Student Union Bldg. . ","College Park , MD 20742 Tel : -LRB-301-RRB- 314-3645 Web : http:\/\/www.och.umd.edu Off-campus housing information Enrollment Services Office-Graduate Admissions University of Maryland College Park Enrollment Services Operations Application for Graduate Admission Rm 0130 Mitchell Building College Park , MD 20742 Send application materials to this address . ","Dates & Deadlines Fall Semester Admission Spring Semester Admission -LRB- only for University of Maryland students -RRB- Deadline for applications and all supporting material due at Graduate School and Computer Science Department December 15 October 1 Admission offers sent by Department -LRB- dates tentative -RRB- February 15 November 15 Visit Day for Admitted Students TBA in March N\/A Deadline for applicant to reply to offer April 15 December 15 Maryland English Institute and ISSS Orientation for International Students August 18-21 N\/A Computer Science Department Orientation TBA in late August N\/A Classes begin August 31 January 25 Classes End December 11 May 10 Note : Dates for offers to be sent by the Department are tentative and may vary . ","The Department will notify applicants as quickly as possible ; your patience is appreciated . ","2 . ","Location The University of Maryland , College Park , is the flagship campus of the University System of Maryland . ","One of the largest campuses in the US , it is located in the Washington , D.C. area , a traditional center for culture and science . ","The area has many internationally renowned museums , monuments , libraries , theaters , and performing arts organizations . ","Around the National Mall , at the center of the nation 's capital , is a concentration of museums and monuments unlike anywhere in the world . ","More recently , the area has become a technology center , especially in computer networking , communications , Internet services , and biotechnology . ","The Washington area is one of the most verdant metropolitan areas in the US , with large areas devoted to wildlife refuges and scenic parks . ","Surrounding the Washington area are nearby state and national parks and waterways in Maryland , Virginia , and West Virginia , from the Shenandoah and Appalachian Mountains to the Chesapeake Bay and Assateague seashores . ","The area enjoys a full four-season climate , yet the winters are mild relative to most places in the northern US . ","The average daytime temperature in winter usually above freezing , snow stays on the ground for at most a few weeks in the winter , and Spring starts early in March . ","3 . ","Research Opportunities With an annual research budget of several million dollars , the Department 's research projects cover nearly every aspect of computer science , including : Artificial Intelligence Algorithms and Theory Big Data , Data Analytics , and Data Mining Bioinformatics Computational Audition Database Systems Distributed Systems Graphics and Visualization High-Performance Computing Human-Computer Interaction Location-Based Services and Search Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Networking Programming Languages Quantum Computing Scientific Computing and Numerical Analysis Security and Cryptography Software Engineering Systems Vision The department 's basic computing facility is provided by a network of several hundred workstations of Unix , Windows , and Mac flavors . ","Graduate students generally have at least one workstation per person . ","More specialized computing facilities include Unix-based open laboratory , Mac-based multimedia and robotics laboratory , Linux cluster , Alpha farm , SP-2 , etc. , some of which are operated by sister research units on campus . ","In addition , the campus-wide Office of Information Technology operates open workstation labs , mostly for class use . ","The Computer Science Department has close ties to various research units on campus , providing faculty and students opportunities for collaborative research projects and access to specialized research facilities . ","Among these units : The Center for Automation Research -LRB- CfAR -RRB- does research on advanced automation in business and industry . ","Computer Vision Laboratory -LRB- CVL -RRB- is considered one of the three best vision groups in the world . ","The University of Maryland Institute for Advanced Computer Studies -LRB- UMIACS -RRB- fosters interdisciplinary research in computing throughout the University of Maryland System . ","The Human-Computer Interaction Laboratory -LRB- HCIL -RRB- is an international leader in research on the development and evaluation of advanced user interfaces technologies . ","The Institute for Systems Research -LRB- ISR -RRB- is a National Science Foundation Center of Excellence doing research in the areas of automation , communication , database management , and VLSI . ","The Engineering Research Center -LRB- ERC -RRB- fosters cooperative research projects between industry and the University . ","The Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology -LRB- CBCB -RRB- is an interdisciplinary center conducting research on computational analysis of DNA and protein sequences . ","In addition , the faculty regularly collaborate with government and industry technology development organizations in the area , including : NASA-Goddard Space Flight Center , National Institutes of Health , National Institute for Standards and Technology , Army Research Labs , and many more , not to mention the National Security Agency and such like . ","Research support from these various organizations supplements the Computer Science Department 's resources and helps to attract some of the brightest and best young computer scientists . ","4 . ","Applying for Admission Application to the graduate program is open to individuals with an undergraduate education that includes much of the material covered in the following courses : CMSC 330 : Organization of Programming Languages CMSC 420 : Data Structures CMSC 451 : Design and Analysis of Computer Algorithms MATH 140 : Calculus I MATH 141 : Calculus II MATH 240 : Linear Algebra The course numbers and names correspond to UMCP course listings , but the courses should be familiar to anyone with an undergraduate education in computer science . ","Note that fulfilling this requirement often requires additional undergraduate courses . ","Applications are evaluated on the basis of educational and work experience , recommendation letters , and test scores . ","The General GRE -LRB- Graduate Record Examination -RRB- is required for all applicants . ","The average score for the General GRE is : Verbal - 580 -LRB- prior to November 2011 -RRB- or 158 -LRB- since November 2011 -RRB- , Quantitative - 780 -LRB- prior to November 2011 -RRB- or 163 -LRB- since November 2011 -RRB- , and Analytical - 5.0 . ","International students require TOEFL -LRB- Test of English as a Foreign Language -RRB- . ","Undergraduate grade point averages are generally 3.5 or above . ","However , each applicant is considered individually , and reasonable exceptions can be made in particular cases . ","Only a small fraction of those who apply are admitted to the graduate program . ","Satisfying the minimum requirements does not guarantee admission . ","Both GPA and GRE scores of students admitted in recent years have been much higher than the average scores . ","The University of Maryland 's Graduate School accepts applications through its ApplyYourself\/Hobsons application system . ","Before completing the application , applicants are asked to check the Admissions Requirements site for specific instructions . ","As required by the Graduate School , all application materials are to be submitted electronically : Graduate application Transcripts Statement of purpose Letters of recommendation Program\/Department supporting documents -LRB- as applicable -RRB- Non-refundable application fee -LRB- $ 75 -RRB- for each program to which an applicant applies The electronic submission of application materials helps expedite the review of an application . ","Completed applications are reviewed by an admissions committee in each graduate degree program . ","The recommendations of the committees are submitted to the Dean of the Graduate School , who will make the final admission decision . ","Students seeking to complete graduate work at the University of Maryland for degree purposes must be formally admitted to the Graduate School by the Dean . ","To ensure the integrity of the application process , the University of Maryland authenticates submitted materials through TurnItIn for Admissions . ","Information for International Graduate Students The University of Maryland is dedicated to maintaining a vibrant international graduate student community . ","The office of International Students and Scholars Services -LRB- ISSS -RRB- is a valuable resource of information and assistance for prospective and current international students . ","International applicants are encouraged to explore the services they offer , and contact them with related questions . ","The University of Maryland Graduate School offers admission to international students based on academic information ; it is not a guarantee of attendance . ","Admitted international students will then receive instructions about obtaining the appropriate visa to study at the University of Maryland which will require submission of additional documents . ","Please see the Graduate Admissions Process for International applicants for more information . ","Contact Applicants are encouraged to contact the Hobsons online application 's helpdesk for any technical issues . ","For questions related to the admissions process , prospective students may contact the Graduate School . ","Please Note Applications and all supporting documents must be submitted by December 15 in order to be considered for the following Fall semester . ","Foreign students are urged to submit applications early , because processing takes longer than for US applicants . ","GRE examinations must be taken by November in order for the scores to arrive before admissions decisions are made . ","Applicants for Fall will be notified of their admission status approximately the first week of March . ","The Spring Semester application deadline is October 1 . ","NOTE : Only those who are already students at the University of Maryland , College Park , are eligible to apply for the Spring Semester . ","Admission can not be deferred . ","Applicants must indicate the semester in which they wish to begin the program . ","If an applicant does not enroll in the semester admitt , the offer of admission is voided . ","If an applicant decides to enter the program at a later time , a new application must be submitted . ","5 . ","Financial Information Expenses For information on tuition & fees as well as living expenses in the College Park area , please seehttp : \/ \/ www.financialaid.umd.edu\/award_process\/cost_of_attendance.php . ","Assistantships Approximately 60 teaching assistantships are available for new and returning students each semester . ","First-year teaching assistants normally conduct discussion sections of introductory computer science courses or serve as graders , and second-year students often help in upper-level courses . ","For the 2013-2014 academic year -LRB- August 17-May 31 -RRB- , stipends for teaching assistants are in the $ 18,300 - $ 19,800 range , depending upon educational background and experience . ","Approximately 120 students are supported by graduate research assistantships on research grants and contracts . ","Research assistants usually work on projects that lead to thesis or dissertation topics . ","For the 2013-2014 academic year , stipends for graduate research assistants range from $ 18,300 to $ 20,500 . ","In addition to the stipends , teaching and research assistantships cover tuition for up to 10 credits per semester and provide health insurance coverage under the same University benefits plan enjoyed by staff and faculty . ","Many students also receive summer support . ","Fellowships Unlike assistantships , fellowships usually do not require the student to perform any duties . ","The monetary award varies depending on the fellowship but it is generally similar to that of an assistantship . ","The Department often supplements a fellowship offer with a half-time assistantship . ","Fellowships are available from a number of sources outside the University of Maryland , for example , National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowships , Fulbright Fellowships , etc. . ","To apply for these fellowships , you should contact the agency which administers them , check with the financial aid office in your current university , or contact theFellowship Office at the University of Maryland . ","6 . ","Degree Requirements Summary For full-time students starting with a B.S. degree , it usually takes 2-2 1\/2 years to complete the Master of Science -LRB- M.S. -RRB- degree and 5-6 years to complete the Doctor of Philosophy -LRB- Ph.D. -RRB- degree . ","The following is a summary ; for details see Graduate Policy Manual : Information for Enrolled Students . ","Graduate students in CMPS doctoral programs are expected to develop a mastery of their field , and gain familiarity with their discipline from arrival to graduation . ","In particular , full-time doctoral students who arrive with a baccalaureate degree normally will : 1 . ","Become engaged in research no later than during their second year and often in their first year . ","2 . ","Identify a thesis adviser by the end of their second year . ","3 . ","Identify a thesis topic by the end of their third year . ","4 . ","Secure admission to candidacy within 3-4 years . ","5 . ","Publish at least one paper prior to advancing to candidacy , and several prior to graduating . ","6 . ","Complete all requirements and graduate within 5-6 years . ","Graduate students may expect : a -RRB- A wide selection of courses . ","b -RRB- Advice and mentoring by faculty in their program prior to the assignment of an adviser . ","c -RRB- From their adviser : -- Regular access and advice during the research and thesis writing process . ","-- Training in the preparation of oral and written scholarly presentations ; in particular the advice and support for the writing of at least one paper for publication . ","-- Introduction , for example at conferences , to other members of the field . ","-- Assistance and advice with job searches Degree requirements involve coursework , and for this purpose courses are categorized into seven areas : artificial intelligence , computer systems , database systems , scientific computing , software engineering and programming languages , theory of computing , and visual and geometric computing . ","In general , no more than six credit hours may be transferred from another university or another program at UMCP . ","Master of Science The Department offers both thesis and non-thesis options for the M.S. degree . ","Requirements for the M.S. without thesis are as follows : The student must complete 30 credit hours of qualifying courses covering four out of the seven areas . ","All degree requirements must be completed within five years . ","M.S. Comp courses must be completed in four of the seven areas , and a scholarly paper must be prepared under an advisor 's supervision . ","For the M.S. with thesis , the last requirement is replaced by the following : the coursework must include six hours of CMSC 799 -LRB- Master 's Thesis Research -RRB- ; a thesis must be prepared that presents an independent accomplishment in a research , development , or application area of computer science ; and the student must defend the thesis in a final oral examination . ","Doctor of Philosophy Requirements for the PhD Degree include the following : The student must complete 7 600 to 800 level qualifying courses covering five out of the seven areas , in addition to taking two more graduate courses , and complete at least 12 hours of CMSC 899 -LRB- Dissertation Research -RRB- . ","The student must pass an oral Ph.D. . ","Preliminary Examination on a research proposal and prepared readings . ","This must be completed within five years of entering the program . ","The student must prepare a dissertation presenting an original contribution to the field of computer science and pass a final oral examination on the dissertation research . ","This must be done within four years after passing the Preliminary Examination . ","7 . ","Student Organizations Graduate students participate in several organizations affecting departmental and academic affairs . ","Among them : The Executive Council is an elected body of computer science graduate students , which plans activities and addresses issues of concern to the student body . ","The council also allocates funds from the graduate student activities budget . ","Sponsored activities typically include a departmental picnic , seminars and forums , a very popular weekly coffee hour , hikes , and parties . ","The Department Council advises the Chair on issues affecting the department . ","It is composed primarily of faculty , but two graduate student representatives attend the meetings , as non-voting members , to provide graduate student input and to keep the graduate students informed of relevant issues . ","The Education Committee is responsible for the undergraduate and graduate academic programs of the department . ","Composed primarily of faculty , the committee has two voting graduate student representatives and two voting undergraduate student representatives . ","The Graduate Student Government is a campus-wide organization of graduate students for the purpose of improving the quality of graduate student life . ","Some of the recent activities organized by this organization include protest rallies against taxation of scholarships and assistantships , a campus-wide research conference for Graduate Students , setting up a legal aid service for Graduate Students , distributing a newsletter with information for all Graduate Students , and organizing social events such as dances and weekly `` happy hours . '' ","ACM student chapter : The Association for Computing Machinery -LRB- ACM -RRB- is the principal professional society for computer scientists . ","Membership is important for maintaining contact with current developments through journal publications , meetings and conferences . ","Our department has a student chapter of the ACM . ","Student members receive many of the benefits at a reduced rate : journals , conference registration , etc. . ","Membership becomes extremely important as students move into the final stages of their study and begin submitting papers to conferences and ACM journals . ","The Society of Women in Computer Science consists of women from the Department . ","Its purpose is to encourage women to major in Computer Science , through the establishment of a support system including mentoring , group tutoring , and study groups . ","8 . ","Faculty Footer Links University of Maryland website Footer CMNS Website UMD Website User Login Department of Computer Science A.V. Williams Building , University of Maryland College Park , MD 20742 ph : -LRB-301-RRB- 405-2662 FacebookTwitterInstagramLinkedInRSS Feed "],"TIME":["hours","six hours"],"Igpa":["3.5 or above"]}