{"Igrecode":["4854"],"ORGANIZATION":["Materials | Computer Science & Engineering Jump to Navigation University of Washington About Us Contact Us My CSE Internal News & Events News Talks & Events CSE Video About CSE People Faculty Postdocs Staff Students Visitors Education Courses Course Videos Calendars Paul G. Allen Center CSE","DawgBytes ABET Accreditation Research Artificial Intelligence Big Data Computational & Synthetic Biology Computer Architecture Computer Graphics","Vision","Game Science Computing for Development Data Management Human Computer Interaction Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Programming Languages and Software Engineering Robotics Security","TA Home Page Postdocs Prospective Students Undergrads Combined BS\/MS","DawgBytes Faculty Candidates Educational Philosophy Paul G. Allen Center CSE Outreach Broadening Participation ABET Accreditation Alumni Industry Affiliates Support CSE","CSE","University of Washington Application for Graduate Study","Three Letters of Recommendation","GRE","ETS","University of Washington","TOEFL","ETS","University of Washington","MLT","PTE","UW Graduate School Admissions Office","Program Overview Key Features Assistantships Healthcare and Housing Advising Application Information Admission Prerequisites Required Materials Deadlines FAQs Research Opportunities Faculty","Colloquia CSE","UW Environment Links of Interest Lab & Support Contact Us Jobs Privacy Site Use Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington Box"],"LOCATION":["Seattle","WA"],"DATE":["December 15 , 2014","no more than 5 years old","no more than 2 years old"],"MONEY":["$ 85"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"Ideadline":["December 15 , 2014"],"Sentences":["Required Materials | Computer Science & Engineering Jump to Navigation University of Washington About Us Contact Us My CSE Internal News & Events News Talks & Events CSE Video About CSE People Faculty Postdocs Staff Students Visitors Education Courses Course Videos Calendars Paul G. Allen Center CSE Outreach Broadening Participation K-12 : DawgBytes ABET Accreditation Research Artificial Intelligence Big Data Computational & Synthetic Biology Computer Architecture Computer Graphics , Vision , Animation , and Game Science Computing for Development Data Management Human Computer Interaction Machine Learning Natural Language Processing Programming Languages and Software Engineering Robotics Security and Privacy Systems and Networking Theory of Computation Ubiquitous Computing Wireless and Sensor Systems Current Students Undergrads Combined BS\/MS Ph.D. s PMPs TA Home Page Postdocs Prospective Students Undergrads Combined BS\/MS Ph.D. s PMPs CSE Outreach Broadening Participation K-12 : DawgBytes Faculty Candidates Educational Philosophy Paul G. Allen Center CSE Outreach Broadening Participation ABET Accreditation Alumni Industry Affiliates Support CSE Annual Giving Endowed Giving Required Materials Applications must be submitted by the December 15 , 2014 , deadline . ","All CSE department applicants must provide the following information on the online University of Washington Application for Graduate Study , found at : https:\/\/www.grad.washington.edu\/applForAdmiss\/ . ","Statement of Purpose . ","An approximately 1000 word -LRB- max 500KB -RRB- online statement that includes your reasons for wishing to enter graduate studies in computer science . ","Describe your research interests and any relevant experience . ","Highlight accomplishments , skills or knowledge that could contribute to the intellectual and social enrichment of the department . ","You may include an explanation for weaknesses , if any , in your record . ","Type or copy\/paste into the textbox . ","Curriculum Vitae -LRB- CV -RRB- . ","A resume-like synopsis that emphasizes your academic accomplishments : degrees , publications , professional experience , honors\/awards , and work experience . ","You can upload a PDF , Word , or plain text file of the CV to your online application . ","Three Letters of Recommendation . ","You will be asked to enter online the names and contact information -LRB- e.g. , affiliation , email , phone -RRB- for your references and then to activate a request for a letter of recommendation . ","You must enter this information even if letters are being submitted via postal mail . ","GRE Scores . ","Please request that ETS send your scores to the University of Washington , institution code 4854 . ","Scores will be delivered electronically to your online application . ","Scores must be no more than 5 years old . ","TOEFL Scores . ","These scores are required for all international applicants with certain exceptions . ","Please request that ETS send official scores to the University of Washington , institution code 4854 ; official scores are automatically matched to their applications . ","Scores must be no more than 2 years old . ","The IELTS , MLT and PTE are also accepted . ","Unofficial Transcript . ","Unofficial transcripts must be uploaded into the online application . ","You will be asked to submit an official hardcopy transcript only if you are offered admission . ","Therefore , do not send hardcopy transcript materials until you are asked to do so . ","Application Fee . ","A $ 85 application fee is required for your application to be processed by the UW Graduate School Admissions Office . ","You must pay online to be able to declare your application complete Please note that we are proactive in handling partner situations in the admissions review process , so please let us know if such a situation exists and we will help if we can . ","If you have any questions after reading these instructions , please review the Frequently Asked Questions topic and then contact the Graduate Advisor by email at grad-admissions@cs.washington.edu or call at 206-543-1695 . ","Program Overview Key Features Assistantships Healthcare and Housing Advising Application Information Admission Prerequisites Required Materials Deadlines FAQs Research Opportunities Faculty and Grads Faculty Profiles Grads in the News Courses and Colloquia CSE Graduate Courses Colloquia Lifestyle CSE Culture UW Environment Links of Interest Lab & Support Contact Us Jobs Privacy Site Use Computer Science & Engineering University of Washington Box 352350 Seattle , WA 98195-2350 -LRB-206-RRB- 543-1695 voice , -LRB-206-RRB- 543-2969 FAX Please report problems to elisedcs . ","Log in "],"Itoeflcode":["4854"]}