{"Igrecode":["2888"],"ORGANIZATION":["Graduate Program News & Events Directories CIS Home Penn Home Information","Penn CIS","Undergraduate Programs Offered Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Tours Accreditation Graduate All Degrees Offered Doctoral Program CIS","MCIT Master 's Robotics Master 's Admissions Tuition & Fees Fellowships & Aid Research Areas Graduate Group Faculty Current Students Undergraduate Degree Requirements CS Minor CS Second Major Submatriculation Courses Advising Tutoring Student Groups Undergraduate Research Job Opportunities Penn","MCIT Robotics Embedded Systems Courses Advising Student Handbook Research Areas Graduate Group Faculty All Student Resources Faculty and Staff Helpful Links Faculty Affairs Research Policies Departmental Contacts School Buildings School Leadership Academic Programs Office Human Resources Open Positions Post Docs Resources","Penn Engineering Magazine Corporate Partners CIS Collaboration Recruiting Graduates Faculty","CIS Visiting SEAS Accomodations Campus Map Driving Directions DEPARTMENT Chair 's Welcome Department Overview CIS History News & Events TA Hall of Fame","Undergradaute Chair 's Letter Majors & Minors Accreditation Graduate Master 's & Doctoral Degrees RESEARCH Research Areas Research Presentations Centers & Institutes Graduate Group Faculty Undergraduate Research CIS Technical Reports OUTREACH Overview High School Programs","Penn QUICK LINKS Contact CIS Courses Canvas CIS Feature Stories Scholarly Publications Open Positions Career Services Tech Support","CIS Department Contacts","MSE","CIS","MCIT","Levine Phone","mfelker@cis.upenn.edu Brittany Binler Graduate Program Coordinator","CGGT MSE Program Office","Moore Phone","binler@seas.upenn.edu Liz Wai Ping Ng Graduate Program Coordinator for Embedded Systems MSE","Levine Phone","Charity Payne Graduate Program Coordinator for Robotics MSE","Levine Phone","CIS","Penn Engineering Graduate Admissions","Program Information","Information Science","Master of Science in Engineering in Computer Graphics","Master of Science in Engineering in Robotics","Information Technology","CIS","CGGT","Robotics","Embedded Systems","MCIT","MCIT","Penn Engineering Graduate Admissions","GRE","GRE","GRE","MCIT","CGGT","Robotics","ETS","GRE Verbal and Quantitative","TOEFL","TOEFL Institution Code -LRB- University of Pennsylvania , Engineering and Applied Science","TOEFL Department Code","TOEFL","CIS","CIS Departmental Research Areas","Engineering Graduate Admissions","University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate Admissions","University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate Admissions","CIS","MCIT","World Education Services","CGGT","World Education Services","CIS","Application Statistics Admission","GRE","CIS Doctoral Program","The University of Pennsylvania","Yellow Ribbon Program","CIS","CIS","CIS","CIS","CIS","CIS","CIS","CIS","MSE","MCIT","CGGT","Robotics","MSE","CIS","MCIT","Levine Phone","Department","University of Pennsylvania Department of Computer","Penn Engineering","Department of Computer and Information Science 3330 Walnut Street | Levine Hall"],"LOCATION":["U.S.","Canada","U.K.","New Zealand","Australia","St. Philadelphia","PA 19104-6391 USA","St. Philadelphia","PA 19104-6391 USA","United States","Philadelphia","Pennsylvania","Philadelphia","PA"],"DATE":["2888","the past several years","three full years","three full years","the past several years","junior year","2015"],"MONEY":["$ 80"],"Irecommendation":["three","2"],"PERSON":["Mike Felker","Sonya Gwak","Mike Felker"],"Iaddress":["University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate Admissions 109 Towne Building 220 S. 33rd St. Philadelphia , PA 19104-6391 USA"],"Sentences":["CIS - Applying to the Graduate Program News & Events Directories CIS Home Penn Home Information For : Prospective Students Why Penn CIS ? ","Undergraduate Programs Offered Admissions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Tours Accreditation Graduate All Degrees Offered Doctoral Program CIS Master 's CGGT Master 's EMBS Master 's MCIT Master 's Robotics Master 's Admissions Tuition & Fees Fellowships & Aid Research Areas Graduate Group Faculty Current Students Undergraduate Degree Requirements CS Minor CS Second Major Submatriculation Courses Advising Tutoring Student Groups Undergraduate Research Job Opportunities Penn Emerging Scholars Program Graduate Get Started ! ","Doctoral Program MSE CGGT MCIT Robotics Embedded Systems Courses Advising Student Handbook Research Areas Graduate Group Faculty All Student Resources Faculty and Staff Helpful Links Faculty Affairs Research Policies Departmental Contacts School Buildings School Leadership Academic Programs Office Human Resources Open Positions Post Docs Resources List Research Areas Research Facilities Seminar Series Alumni and Friends Welcome Back ! ","Make a Gift Request a Transcript Alumni Society Alumni Events Penn Engineering Magazine Corporate Partners CIS Collaboration Recruiting Graduates Faculty Expertise Visitors Visiting CIS Visiting SEAS Accomodations Campus Map Driving Directions DEPARTMENT Chair 's Welcome Department Overview CIS History News & Events TA Hall of Fame Seminar Series PEOPLE Faculty Staff Postdoctoral Fellows Alumni ACADEMICS Undergradaute Chair 's Letter Majors & Minors Accreditation Graduate Master 's & Doctoral Degrees RESEARCH Research Areas Research Presentations Centers & Institutes Graduate Group Faculty Undergraduate Research CIS Technical Reports OUTREACH Overview High School Programs WICS HS Day for Girls Veterans at Penn QUICK LINKS Contact CIS Courses Canvas CIS Feature Stories Scholarly Publications Open Positions Career Services Tech Support -LRB- CETS -RRB- Facilities Support -LRB- EOS -RRB- Engineering Library Your CIS Department Contacts : Mike Felker Graduate Program Coordinator for Ph.D. , MSE in CIS , and MCIT programs Office : 158 Levine Phone : 215-898-9672 Email : mfelker@cis.upenn.edu Brittany Binler Graduate Program Coordinator for CGGT MSE Program Office : 103 Moore Phone : 215-573-9463 Email : binler@seas.upenn.edu Liz Wai Ping Ng Graduate Program Coordinator for Embedded Systems MSE program Office : 313 Levine Phone : 215-898-8543 Email : wng@seas.upenn.edu Charity Payne Graduate Program Coordinator for Robotics MSE program Office : 459 Levine Phone : 215-898-0374 Email : charity@cis.upenn.edu Applying to the CIS Graduate Program Application Procedure All applications for engineering graduate programs are submitted online . ","Penn Engineering Graduate Admissions provides links to create an application or log in to view an existing application here . ","Information by Program Information about our Doctoral -LRB- Ph.D. -RRB- , Master of Science in Engineering in Computer and Information Science -LRB- MSE -RRB- , Master of Science in Engineering in Computer Graphics and Game Technology -LRB- CGGT -RRB- , Master of Science in Engineering in Robotics , Master of Science in Engineering in Embedded Systems , and the Master of Computer and Information Technology -LRB- MCIT -RRB- graduate programs can be found here . ","You can also access information about our faculty , research and courses . ","Applicants to the CIS Doctoral and CIS\/MSE graduate programs are expected to have a strong academic background in computer science ; the core courses for Doctoral students are the same core courses taken by CIS\/MSE students . ","Applicants to the CGGT graduate program are also expected to have a strong academic background in computer science . ","Applicants to the Robotics program are expected to have a strong academic background in computer science , electrical engineering , or mechanical engineering . ","Applicants to the Embedded Systems program are expected to have a strong academic background in computer science or electrical engineering . ","The MCIT graduate program is designed for candidates with a strong academic background in an area other than computer science ; i.e. , candidates with a strong academic background in computer science should NOT apply to the MCIT graduate program . ","Candidates may apply to the doctoral program only as full-time students . ","Penn Engineering Graduate Admissions provides an admissions FAQ here . ","Graduate Record Exam -LRB- GRE -RRB- Official Graduate Record Exam -LRB- GRE -RRB- General Test scores must be submitted . ","Our institution code is 2888 ; it is not necessary to use a department code . ","The GRE subject test is not required . ","Information about the GRE test can be found at www.gre.org . ","The average GRE scores for candidates admitted to the Ph.D. , CIS\/MSE , MCIT , CGGT , Robotics , and EMBS programs for the past several years are available here . ","This will give you an idea of what is expected of applicants . ","On the ETS website you can download a chart comparing the pre-2011 GRE Verbal and Quantitative grading system with the current grading system . ","TOEFL\/IELTS International students and permanent residents whose native language is not English must submit proof of English proficiency . ","This may be done in the following ways : Completion of three full years of course work in an academic program at a college or university in the U.S. prior to matriculation * ; Submission of an official TOEFL score ; A total score of at least 100 is expected for the internet-based exam . ","Our TOEFL Institution Code -LRB- University of Pennsylvania , Engineering and Applied Science -RRB- is 2888 . ","Our TOEFL Department Code is 78 . ","Information about the TOEFL can be found at www.toefl.org . ","Submission of an official score report for the International English Language Testing System -LRB- IELTS -RRB- with a score of at least 7.5 . ","Information about the IELTS can be found at www.ielts.org\/default.aspx * Proof of English Language proficiency may also be demonstrated by completion of three full years of course work in an academic program at a college or university in Canada , the U.K. , New Zealand , or Australia . ","Grade Point Average Applicants to the CIS graduate programs are expected to have high grade point averages . ","Deadlines Deadlines for doctoral and master 's program admissions applications can be found here . ","The deadlines are to monitor the number of applications , admittances , matriculants , etc. . ","There is no Spring Application Cycle . ","All materials - test scores , recommendations , etc. - should be submitted when the application is submitted or shortly thereafter . ","All applications are reviewed , and applicants notified of the decision , as expeditiously as possible . ","Personal Statement All applicants should use the personal statement to describe academic , career , and , if applicable , research objectives , as well as any other information you wish to convey . ","Applicants may include a resume with the personal statement if they wish . ","Applicants to the doctoral program should review the CIS Departmental Research Areas and note in the personal statement those research areas to be of special interest . ","Recommendations Applicants to the doctoral program are required to provide three -LRB- 3 -RRB- recommendations . ","Applicants to the master 's programs are required to provide two -LRB- 2 -RRB- recommendations . ","Recommendations should be from faculty familiar with the applicant 's academic abilities ; one industry recommendation is acceptable . ","The process for submitting recommendations is outlined on the Engineering Graduate Admissions website . ","Recommenders are strongly encouraged to submit their recommendations online - this is the quickest and most efficient method of submitting the recommendation . ","Hard copy recommendation forms are not available . ","If recommenders wish to submit a hard copy recommendation rather than the preferred online version , it must be sent to : University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate Admissions 109 Towne Building 220 S. 33rd St. Philadelphia , PA 19104-6391 USA Transcripts\/Documents\/Evaluation All materials needed to complete the application - transcripts , test scores , recommendations , personal statements , etc. - should be submitted online to ensure accuracy and a swift completion of the application dossier . ","Applicants must upload an unofficial copy -LRB- scanned , MS Word , PDF , etc. -RRB- of all transcripts into the online application ; if an applicant is unable to upload the transcript copy , then the online self-reported transcript must be completed . ","The transcript submitted online is used for the evaluation . ","The hard copy official transcript is used for verification and should be submitted when the application is submitted . ","One official hard copy of the transcript , to verify those submitted online , must be sent to : University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science Graduate Admissions 111 Towne Building 220 S. 33rd St. Philadelphia , PA 19104-6391 USA The official hard copy transcript should be sent directly by the issuing college or university . ","International applicants are not required to provide proof of financial support at the time of submission of an application to the CIS graduate program and should not submit this information with the application . ","International applicants to the CIS\/PhD , CIS\/MSE , MCIT , EMBS , & Robotics programs may wish to provide an evaluation of their transcripts by a credential evaluation service such as the World Education Services but such an evaluation is NOT mandatory . ","International applicants to the CGGT program are strongly encouraged to provide an evaluation of their transcripts by a credential evaluation service such as the World Education Services but such an evaluation is NOT mandatory . ","Candidates who wish to have their papers , abstracts , talks , portfolios , etc. , reviewed as part of the application dossier should not send hard copies or DVDs ; please link these materials on your web page and list the appropriate URLs in your personal statement . ","The online application process allows the applicant to log in to determine what materials have been received and applicants are STRONGLY encouraged to do this . ","When an applicant logs in , the information regarding materials received , etc. is listed at the bottom of the page , right below the application status . ","It is not possible to evaluate a candidate 's potential for admission to the graduate program until the application is complete and all transcripts , letters of recommendation , personal statement , test scores , application fee , etc. have been submitted . ","Test scores , transcripts , etc. should be submitted when the application is submitted or shortly after the application is submitted . ","An application will not be evaluated until all needed materials have been submitted and it is complete . ","All completed applications are evaluated . ","Application Fee The application fee is $ 80 . ","This information is available in the online application . ","The application fee to apply for a CIS graduate program is waived for United States active duty service members and military veterans . ","Send an email request to Dr. Sonya Gwak @ sgwak@seas.upenn.edu, including a scanned copy of your DD 214 or other appropriate documentation . ","Application Statistics Admission statistics - number of applicants\/admits , average GRE scores , etc. - for our six graduate programs for the past several years are available here . ","This will give you an idea of what is expected of applicants . ","Financial Aid Information Departmental financial aid is available only for doctoral students . ","Applicants to the CIS Doctoral Program are considered for available funding ; it is not necessary to submit extra material to be considered for funding . ","There is no departmental funding available for master 's students . ","There are no RA positions available in the department ; only research fellow positions for doctoral candidates . ","Teaching Assistant -LRB- TA -RRB- duties are generally met by Ph.D. candidates participating in a Teaching Practicum . ","Information about other funding resources can be found here . ","The University of Pennsylvania participates in the Yellow Ribbon Program ; information can be found here . ","Submatriculation Submatriculation : Undergraduate students should not apply for submatriculation status in the CIS\/MSE program until their junior year . ","They will be expected to complete CIS 120 , CIS 121 , CIS 160 , CIS 240 , CIS 262 , the project course and at least one of CIS 320 , CIS 371 , CIS 380 by the end of their junior year and should include a plan for doing so along with the application . ","Applicants should have at least a 3.2 GPA in their major as well as a 3.2 GPA in the seven -LRB- or more -RRB- courses listed in the application guideline above . ","Admission is selective and decisions are made by the graduate group . ","SEAS Information regarding the submatriculation option for is available here . ","Questions Admission statistics for the Ph.D. , MSE , MCIT , CGGT , Robotics , and EMBS programs can be found here . ","Questions may be directed to : Mike Felker Graduate Program Coordinator for Ph.D. , MSE in CIS , and MCIT programs Office : 158 Levine Phone : 215-898-9672 Email : mfelker@cis.upenn.edu The address\/contact information for the Department is : University of Pennsylvania Department of Computer and Information Science 3330 Walnut Street Philadelphia , Pennsylvania 19104-6389 Phone : -LRB-215-RRB- 898-9672 Fax : -LRB-215-RRB- 898-0587 Note : Before calling or emailing , please review the online application forms and procedures . ","Most of the questions you may have are probably answered there . ","And again , the online application allows the applicant to determine what materials have been received and and applicants are strongly encouraged to do this . ","Penn Engineering © 2015 | university of pennsylvania | school of engineering and applied science Department of Computer and Information Science 3330 Walnut Street | Levine Hall | Philadelphia , PA 19104-6309 | P : 215-898-8560 | F : 215-898-0587 Contact us with questions about admissions or academic programs ! ","| For website issues , email the webmaster . "],"Igpa":["high"],"Itoeflcode":["2888","78"],"Itoefl":["100"]}