{"Igrecode":["4859"],"LOCATION":["M.S.","M.S.","UC Irvine","M.S.","U.S.","Irvine Irvine"],"MONEY":["$ 90","$ 110"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"PERSON":["Donald Bren Hall"],"Iaddress":["ICS Graduate Office Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences 352 Information & Computer Science Bldg. . University of California , Irvine Irvine , CA 92697-3430"],"Ideadline":["December 15th"],"Itoeflcode":["4859"],"Itoefl":["80"],"ORGANIZATION":["School '' Bren ICS Mission","Bren School '' Contact Us '' Equity & Diversity '' Departments '' Computer Science '' Informatics '' Statistics '' Research '' Research Areas '' Research Centers '' Research Highlights '' Education '' Graduate Prospective Students Programs of Study M.S. Degree Overview Ph.D.","Bren School Graduate","UCI","Bren School","Bren School","Computer Science","M.S. Computer Science","Computer Science","M.S. Networked Systems","M.S. Networked Systems","M.S. Software Engineering","M.S. Statistics","UCI Graduate Division","GRE","TOEFL","GRE","GRE","GRE","GRE","The Computer Science Subject GRE","Computer Science","GRE","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","Graduate Division","UCI","TOEFL","Provide the Letter of Recommendation and Waiver of Access","ICS Graduate Office Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences 352 Information & Computer Science Bldg.","University of California","ICS Graduate Office","M.S.","Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Copyright Inquiries | UCI"],"DATE":["September 1st to December 15th","December 15th","the fall quarter","five years","March through May"],"Igre":["no minimum GRE score"],"Sentences":["graduate application process @ the bren school of information and computer sciences '' About '' About the School '' Bren ICS Mission '' Dean 's Welcome '' About the Bren Gift '' Facts and Figures '' Donald Bren Hall '' Visit the Bren School '' Contact Us '' Equity & Diversity '' Departments '' Computer Science '' Informatics '' Statistics '' Research '' Research Areas '' Research Centers '' Research Highlights '' Education '' Graduate Prospective Students Programs of Study M.S. Degree Overview Ph.D. . ","Degree Overview Academic Year Plan Forms Policies Funding & Housing Computing Support Campus Resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook '' Undergraduate Academic Advising Academic Year Plan Petitions ICS Majors ICS Minors Policies : Academic Integrity Policies : Academic Standing Policies : Add , drop , & change options Policies : Coursework outside UCI Policies : Grade policy Policies : Laptop & computer use Policies : Withdrawal\/Readmission Graduation ICS Student Life Computing Support '' Prospective Undergrad '' UCI Parents '' People '' Faculty '' Staff '' Graduate Students '' Community '' Alumni '' Friends '' Parent Programs '' Leadership Council '' Make a Gift '' News '' Get Involved '' Tech Talks '' Information Sessions '' Sponsor Projects '' Leadership Council '' Corporate Partners '' Sponsor Interns '' Tech Jobs '' Butterworth Competition Bren school home > Graduate > Admissions Graduate Application Process Online applications for graduate admissions are accepted from September 1st to December 15th . ","All materials as outlined below should be submitted before the December 15th deadline . ","-LRB- Additional information for those re-applying to the Bren School can be found here . -RRB- ","You can still apply to the Bren School if your undergraduate degree is not in the same area as the graduate degree in which you are interested . ","However , it is helpful if you have taken courses in computer science and math , and\/or have some related work experience . ","ICS accepts applications for admission beginning in the fall quarter only . '' ","Online Application Complete the online application . ","Pay particular attention to the following : Enter the appropriate codes for ICS . ","Note that you must choose either M.S. or Ph.D. as ICS does not have a M.S. \/ Ph.D. program . ","Computer Science , M.S. Computer Science , Ph.D. . ","Informatics , Ph.D. . ","Information and Computer Science , M.S. Networked Systems , M.S. Networked Systems , Ph.D. . ","Software Engineering , M.S. Software Engineering , Ph.D. . ","Statistics , M.S. Statistics , Ph.D. . ","Enter a specific area of interest . ","More information about research areas can be found here . ","Save your application ID and student ID numbers ; they will be asked of you when filling out other documents . ","Applications are processed after the application fee -LRB- $ 90 for domestic applicants , $ 110 for foreign applicants -RRB- has been received . ","The application fee canot be waived . ","If you have questions regarding your electronic application or your payment , contact UCI Graduate Division at -LRB-949-RRB- 824-4611 or ogs@uci.edu . '' ","GRE and TOEFL Scores Arrange to have your official test scores sent from the testing agency to UC Irvine . ","Photocopies or scans will not be accepted . ","GRE The General GRE is required of ALL applicants . ","For official GRE General test scores , use Institutional code : 4859 There is no minimum GRE score . ","The Computer Science Subject GRE is recommended for applicants who do not have a degree in Computer Science or a related field . ","GRE scores are good for five years , after which time the exam must be retaken . ","We can not accept GMA scores in lieu of GRE scores . ","TOEFL The TOEFL -LRB- Test of English as a Foreign Language -RRB- is required of international applicants . ","For official TOEFL test scores , use Institutional code : 4859 The minimum TOEFL score is 80 . ","For more information , please see Graduate Division 's English Proficiency site . ","UCI will only waive the TOEFL requirement for applicants who have completed ALL requirements for a B.S. , M.S. or Ph.D. degree in the U.S. prior to submitting their application . '' ","Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required , but you may submit as many letters as you wish . ","For paper submission Provide the Letter of Recommendation and Waiver of Access forms to at least three people you have identified who can evaluate your academic and\/or professional achievements , describe your strengths and weaknesses and comment on your character , integrity and motivation . ","Your recommenders should mail his\/her letter directly to : ICS Graduate Office Donald Bren School of Information and Computer Sciences 352 Information & Computer Science Bldg. . ","University of California , Irvine Irvine , CA 92697-3430 For online submission Applicants who have completed and submitted their online application should send their recommenders a link to that page , along with their application ID number . '' ","Personal Statement The Personal Statement -LRB- same as Statement of Purpose -RRB- should be submitted via the online application . '' ","Official Transcripts Arrange to have one copy of your official transcripts from the colleges you attended sent directly to the ICS Graduate Office . ","An official English translation is required from international students . ","Photocopies , scans , or unofficial copies of transcripts will not be accepted . '' ","Checking Your Application Status Applicants may login to the online GATS TRACKER to check for application materials received and their current application status . ","Ph.D. and M.S. admissions decisions are ongoing from approximately March through May . ","Acceptance and denial letters will be sent electronically . ","We can not provide you with the final decision over the phone . ","More Graduate '' Prospective students Programs of study M.S. degree overview Ph.D. degree overview Academic year plan Forms Policies Funding & housing Computing support Campus resources Visit the Bren School Graduate Student Handbook Copyright Inquiries | UCI Directory | Intranet | icswebmaster "]}