{"Igrecode":["1832"],"ORGANIZATION":["FAQ | Computer Science PhD Program | The University of Chicago Skip","The University of Chicago Computer Science PhD Program University of Chicago Computer Science PhD Program Admissions FAQ Current Students Prospective Students PhD Program Admission","Admissions FAQ Apply on-line Financial Aid Faculty Research Interests Search Search Related Links UCARE Project Frequently Asked Questions","University of Chicago","TOEFL","GRE","GPA","ETS GRE","University of Chicago","The Admissions Committee","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","GRE","GPA","ETS GRE","GRE","University of Chicago","Admissions Committee","Department","University","The University of Chicago © 2015 The University of Chicago Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Computer Science PhD Program"],"LOCATION":["PhD-level","Chicago"],"DATE":["years","two years","years","January 3rd","1832","five years","a sixth year","the sixth year","the third or fourth week of September","Autumn"],"MONEY":["$ 55"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"Igre":["no minimum scores"],"Ideadline":["January 3rd"],"Sentences":["Admissions FAQ | Computer Science PhD Program | The University of Chicago Skip to main navigation Skip to main content The University of Chicago Computer Science PhD Program University of Chicago Computer Science PhD Program Admissions FAQ Current Students Prospective Students PhD Program Admission to the PhD program Admissions FAQ Apply on-line Financial Aid Faculty Research Interests Search Search Related Links UCARE Project Frequently Asked Questions about admission to the Ph.D. program Should I apply to the PhD program or the Master 's program ? ","Is the PhD program in computer science at the University of Chicago appropriate for me ? ","Do students in the PhD program receive a Master 's Degree ? ","I do n't need a PhD but I 'd like to get the Master 's Degree in the PhD program . ","What do I do ? ","I have years of experience with a number of programming languages in an industrial or business environment . ","I am a successful software engineer or systems analyst . ","Do I qualify for your PhD program ? ","How do I apply ? ","What is the deadline for applying to the PhD program ? ","What is the fee for applying to the PhD program ? ","Is it necessary to contact a potential advisor before applying ? ","What are the requirements for application to the PhD program ? ","What are the TOEFL or IELTS requirements ? ","What are the minimum GRE and GPA scores ? ","What are the ETS GRE codes ? ","What should I write about in my Statement of Purpose ? ","I participated in student competitions . ","What do I need to write about them ? ","I have published research . ","What documentation do I need to provide ? ","I did not participate in student competitions and I have not done any research yet . ","Do I have any chance of admission to your PhD program ? ","My grades are less than stellar . ","Do you care to know why ? ","How precisely do I need to specify my research interests ? ","If I state a preferred area of research , can I later change this ? ","How are PhD students funded ? ","For how many years do I get funded ? ","Would I have the opportunity to teach ? ","How do I prepare for my duties as a Teaching Assistant ? ","When do the PhD studies begin ? ","Is it possible to enter the PhD program in Winter or Spring ? ","If I need more information , how do I obtain it ? ","Should I apply to the PhD program or the Master 's program ? ","If you have a strong background in computer science , mathematics , or a related field such as linguistics and you wish to do independent research in computer science in a highly competitive world-wide research environment , we encourage you to apply to our PhD program . ","If you are a computer professional or a novice to computer science and wish to gain a formal understanding of the principles and techniques of applied computer science , our Master 's Program may be the right choice for you . ","Is the PhD.program in computer science at the University of Chicago appropriate for me ? ","The key question is a match between your interests and faculty research . ","Please study our web-site to see which research group and which individual faculty members perform research to which you feel affinity . ","Another key question is how you feel about our formal requirements . ","Please study the web-page about these requirements . ","Do students in the PhD program receive a Master 's Degree ? ","Upon successful completion of the Course requirements and the presentation of a research-oriented Master 's paper , students in the PhD program receive a Master 's Degree . ","This concludes the first phase of their work toward their PhD and is expected to take two years . ","I do n't need a PhD but I 'd like to get the Master 's Degree in the PhD program . ","What do I do ? ","We do not offer the `` Master 's Degree in the PhD program '' as a separate program . ","Only students admitted into the PhD program are eligible for this avenue toward the Master 's Degree . ","If you are not interested in PhD-level research , you may want to consider our Master 's Program . ","I have years of experience with a number of programming languages in an industrial or business environment . ","I am a successful software engineer or systems analyst . ","Do I qualify for your PhD program ? ","This depends on your background and interest in performing PhD-level independent research in one of the areas of faculty interest . ","Please study our web-page to find out about the research areas pursued by our faculty . ","How do I apply ? ","An on-line application is now available . ","For a paper application , send email to admissions@cs.uchicago.edu . ","What is the deadline for applying to the PhD program ? ","The deadline is January 3rd . ","Late applications will be considered only if exceptional merit is demonstrated . ","What is the fee for applying to the PhD program ? ","The fee for applying to the PhD program is $ 55 . ","Is it necessary to contact a potential advisor before applying ? ","No , this is not necessary ; in fact , we ask you to refrain from doing so because of the high volume of applications . ","You are , however , encouraged to mention on your application form as well as in your Personal Statement any faculty members whose research appeals to you . ","The Admissions Committee assigns an initial advisor to each incoming student . ","Students can change advisors later , after personal interaction with our faculty . ","What are the requirements for application to the PhD program ? ","Completed application , including Statement of Purpose Three letters of recommendation Scanned copy of official transcripts GRE scores TOEFL scores -LRB- foreign applicants -RRB- Curriculum Vitae Any other supporting documentation you deem appropriate -LRB- e.g. , copies of authored papers , diplomas from student competitions -RRB- . ","What are the TOEFL score requirements ? ","Applicants whose first or native language is not English must demonstrate an adequate command of both spoken and written English , and they are required to submit English proficiency test scores as part of their application . ","We recognize the internet-based test -LRB- iBT -RRB- of the Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- and the International English Language Testing System -LRB- IELTS -RRB- . ","Applicants whose total score on the four-part TOEFL falls below 90 -LRB- or IELTS falls below 7 -RRB- will not normally be admitted unless other demonstrable evidence of proficiency in English is available . ","What are the minimum GRE and GPA scores ? ","What we are most interested in is the applicant 's research potential . ","These scores are just one of many criteria we consider . ","There are no minimum scores . ","We much prefer students who have taken challenging advanced courses to those with top scores on rudimentary courses . ","There are many ways for applicants to demonstrate their research potential . ","What are the ETS GRE codes ? ","Our GRE institution code is 1832 and our department code is 0402 . ","What should I write about in my Statement of Purpose ? ","There are no rules about this . ","Make it as informative as you can . ","We love to hear details about your background , about your career so far , about your goals , about your research interests , about your reasons for choosing certain areas of research , about your reasons for choosing the University of Chicago , and any other thoughts you wish to share with us . ","I participated in student competitions . ","What do I need to write about them ? ","Please mention your participation and achievement in your Statement of Purpose . ","Please give a precise indication of what your achievement meant . ","We 'd like to know the organization running the competition and the population of the area from where students were eligible to participate . ","If you received a prize , we 'd like to know how many students shared each prize . ","We 'd also like to know if there is a web-site where some of these data can be verified . ","It is also helpful if one of the letters of recommendation explicitly verifies your statements . ","I have published research . ","What documentation do I need to provide ? ","Please send us a copy . ","If the publication is not in English , an English translation is helpful . ","If the publication appeared in a local outlet not easily found in American libraries , it is helpful if at least one of your letters of recommendation specifically comments on the nature of the publication -LRB- student publication , major publication of new research , etc. -RRB- . ","I did not participate in student competitions and I have not done any research yet . ","Do I have any chance of admission to your PhD program ? ","Participation in student competitions and having a prior research record are not required for admission to our PhD program ; in fact , only a fraction of our current graduate students had such background at the time they applied to our program . ","The key to admission is your research potential as perceived by our Admissions Committee through the examination of all documents in your application material . ","My grades are less than stellar . ","Do you care to know why ? ","What we are interested in is not grades but research potential ; grades are but one indicator . ","A lower grade in a challenging course is worth more than a perfect grade in an easy or irrelevant course . ","If you feel your grades do not reflect your academic potential , please let us know why . ","How precisely do I need to specify my research interests ? ","We do not expect that applicants have decided upon a precise thesis topic . ","Applicants tend to have a preference for one or more of the broad areas of research pursued by the faculty in our department . ","Please look at our web-page for departmental research for up-to-date information about faculty research . ","Tell us why you prefer a particular area . ","If I state a preferred area of research , can I later change this ? ","We fully expect students ' interests to change over time , partly in response to their interaction with our faculty . ","-LRB- Please note that our faculty 's interests also change . -RRB- ","Preferences you express in your Statement of Purpose will not be binding on you , they simply give us a chance to know more about you at the time of application . ","How are PhD students funded ? ","Students enrolled in the Ph.D. program receive a stipend from the department as long as they make satisfactory progress toward their degree . ","The stipend is more than adequate to cover a student 's typical living expenses , and also covers tuition . ","In return , students have to perform services for the department , most often as Teaching Assistants . ","Some advanced students may be funded by their advisor 's research grant as Research Assistants for varying periods of time depending on the student 's progress and on grant availability . ","During the periods of such funding , no service to the Department is required . ","For how many years do I get funded ? ","Funding depends on satisfactory progress toward your degree . ","Students are expected to graduate in five years or less . ","If sufficient progress is demonstrated , the faculty may extend funding through a sixth year . ","After the sixth year , support from the department is not generally available . ","Would I have the opportunity to teach ? ","The department takes its undergraduate teaching responsibilities very seriously , and offers supervised teaching opportunities to the graduate students . ","Most graduate students will act as teaching assistants or work as lab assistants ; a small number of qualifying graduate students will act as lecturers . ","The department also works with other University departments to make campus-wide teaching seminars available to its students . ","How do I prepare for my duties as a Teaching Assistant ? ","Please check our undergraduate course descriptions . ","You are likely to teach a course with a course number beginning 10 , 11 , or 12 . ","You may need to master specific programming languages such as C++ and Scheme to be able to perform your teaching duties . ","When do the PhD studies begin ? ","Classes start in the third or fourth week of September . ","Is it possible to enter the PhD program in Winter or Spring ? ","Our program starts in Autumn . ","Only in cases of exceptional merit do we consider exceptions to this rule . ","If I need more information , how do I obtain it ? ","Your primary source of information is our web-site . ","Please study all aspects of it ; especially the PhD requirements , the departmental research and the profiles of the individual faculty members . ","If , after having studied these web sources , you still have further questions , you may write to admissions@cs.uchicago.edu . ","Please keep your message short . ","Due to the large volume of incoming mail , long messages and messages containing attachments run the risk of not being read . ","Share this page The University of Chicago © 2015 The University of Chicago Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Computer Science PhD Program 1100 E. 58th Street Rm 152 Chicago , IL 60637 United States "],"Itoeflcode":["0402"],"Itoefl":["90"]}