{"Igrecode":["6874"],"ORGANIZATION":["Computer Science | Computer Science & Engineering Campuses : Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester","Search Search College of Science and Engineering CSE Home CSE","CSE","CS&E Admissions Undergraduate CS","Data Science Academics Undergraduate Graduate Student Affairs Graduate Course Offerings Class Home Pages People Faculty Research Staff Office Staff Systems Staff Graduate Students Research Research Areas Related Research Centers Technical Reports Community Alumni Industrial Affiliates Council CS Associates Student Groups Open House Support CS&E Resources Forms Systems Help Faculty Portal Computing Facilities Department","Computer Science Undergraduate CS","Computer Science MS in Computer Science MCS in Computer Science MS","Computer Science","GPA","GRE","TOEFL","Graduate School On-line Application and Instructions The Graduate School","Graduate School","Graduate School","University of Minnesota","University of Minnesota","GRE","Graduate School of the University of Minnesota","GRE","Graduate School","Graduate School","GRE","ETS","GRE Computer Science Subject Test","TOEFL","TOEFL","GRE","TOEFL Institution Codes","GRE","Computer Science and Engineering Department","Graduate School","University of Minnesota","University of Minnesota","Graduate School 's Application","CS&E Department","CS&E Twin Cities Campus : Maps & Directions Parking & Transportation Contact U of M Privacy Directories","University of Minnesota","The University of Minnesota"],"DATE":["November 15 , 2014","Fall 2015","December 5 , 2014","Fall 2015","January 5 , 2015","Fall 2015","spring"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"Sentences":["PhD in Computer Science | Computer Science & Engineering Campuses : Twin Cities Crookston Duluth Morris Rochester Other Locations Go to the U of M home page One Stop myU Search Search College of Science and Engineering CSE Home CSE Directory Give to CSE Student Dashboard About Welcome Facts and Figures Reports and Newsletters Contact Info What 's happening at CS&E Admissions Undergraduate CS PhD \/ MS MS in Software Engineering MS in Data Science Academics Undergraduate Graduate Student Affairs Graduate Course Offerings Class Home Pages People Faculty Research Staff Office Staff Systems Staff Graduate Students Research Research Areas Related Research Centers Technical Reports Community Alumni Industrial Affiliates Council CS Associates Student Groups Open House Support CS&E Resources Forms Systems Help Faculty Portal Computing Facilities Department Wiki Employment You are here Home ' Admissions ' CS PhD \/ MS ' PhD in Computer Science Undergraduate CS PhD \/ MS PhD in Computer Science MS in Computer Science MCS in Computer Science MS in Software Engineering MS in Data Science PhD in Computer Science Contents Admission Requirements Important Dates Application Procedure The Ph.D. in Computer Science is a research degree which culminates in a unique dissertation that demonstrates original and creative research . ","Information about its structure and degree requirements can be found here . ","-LRB- this is a link to the academics counterpart -RRB- Back to top Admission Requirements The following is a list of requirements that are considered as prerequisites for admission to the Ph.D. program : A candidate must have demonstrated research potential and interest . ","A candidate must have a prior undergraduate or graduate degree in a major with a substantial background in computer science & engineering . ","A candidate must have a demonstrated ability to maintain a 3.45 GPA or greater . ","A candidate 's GRE scores should reflect a firm grasp of qualitative and quantitative reasoning . ","An international applications TOEFL scores should reflect a strong command of the English language . ","Note that even though well-qualified applicants without an undergraduate\/graduate computer science major will be considered , applicants with computer science major will be preferred . ","In addition , a Master 's degree is not required to apply to the Ph.D. program . ","Back to top Important Dates November 15 , 2014 Admission cycle opens for Fall 2015 . ","Applications should not be submitted prior to the application cycle open date . ","December 5 , 2014 Ph.D. application deadline to be considered for Fellowships for Fall 2015 . ","January 5 , 2015 Application deadline for Fall 2015 We do not admit for spring term . ","Back to top Application Procedure All Ph.D. applicants are required to complete two applications : -LRB- i -RRB- the graduate school application , and -LRB- ii -RRB- the computer science application . ","Instructions for these two applications are provided in the rest of this page . ","Note that Ph.D. applicants must list recommenders in the computer science application ONLY . '' ","Graduate School On-line Application and Instructions The Graduate School online application along with detailed instructions regarding the application can be found here at the Graduate School application site . ","The following material should be included in the Graduate School Application : Statements The Graduate School requests two statements to be uploaded : 1 . ","Statement of Purpose - Concisely discuss your computer science educational , research , or industrial background as they relate to your objectives . ","Include any unique experiences relevant to research you have done . ","Discuss why you are applying to the University of Minnesota . ","Please include names of faculty members and research groups at the University of Minnesota whose research is of interest to you . ","Use this area to list any extenuating circumstances such as poor grades or test scores . ","2 . ","Diversity Statement . ","Transcripts You must indicate all the colleges and graduate schools you have attended . ","Unofficial transcripts must be uploaded directly to the Apply Yourself application per these instructions . ","Official transcripts are required for those students admitted to the program . ","Do not fax or mail hard copies of your transcripts as it will significantly delay the processing of your application . ","GRE The Graduate Record Exam -LRB- general test -RRB- is required for all applicants . ","Applicants submit scores to the Graduate School of the University of Minnesota . ","Unofficial versions -LRB- Photocopies -RRB- of the GRE are acceptable initially but upon admission and intention to matriculate , official scores must be sent from to the Graduate School . ","Any hard copies sent by you to the Graduate School are unavailable to us so a copy must also be sent to our department . ","Official GRE scores sent from ETS are accessible to us . ","The GRE Computer Science Subject Test is optional , though recommended for those seeking fellowships or graduate assistantships . ","TOEFL , MELAB , IELTS International students must send official TOEFL , MELAB or IELTS scores . ","For more information visit : Graduate School 's TOEFL information page . ","The department requires a speaking score of 23 or higher to qualify for teaching assistantships . ","GRE and TOEFL Institution Codes : GRE INSTITUTION CODE 6874 GRE DEPARTMENT CODE NONE TOEFL INSTITUTION CODE 6874 TOEFL DEPARTMENT CODE NONE Three Letters of Recommendation Letters of recommendation must be uploaded into the CS&E application system . ","Please do not upload Letters of Recommendation into the ApplyYourself system . ","Curriculum Vitae or resume . ","This should include : Educational background and degrees Teaching or research experience A list of papers\/publications -LRB- URLs included -RRB- Computer languages in which you are proficient Other information that will advance your application can be uploaded in PDF format '' Computer Science Ph.D Application Procedure and Requirements The Computer Science and Engineering Department requires all Ph.D. applicants complete the departmental application . ","In order for you to access the CS&E application you will need your graduate school application number , The Apply Yourself ID -LRB- AY # -RRB- , can be found in the upper right corner of the printed copy of your Graduate School application . ","The following material should be included in the CS&E Application : Statement of Purpose : In your Statement of Purpose concisely discuss your computer science , educational , research , or industrial background as they relate to your objectives . ","Include any unique experiences relevant to research you have done . ","Discuss why you are applying to the University of Minnesota . ","Please include names of faculty members and research groups at the University of Minnesota whose research is of interest to you.If necessary , Use this area to list any extenuating circumstances such as poor grades or test scores . ","Three Letters of Recommendation Provide the names and e-mail address of three recommenders through the CS&E Application only . ","Do NOT include this information on the Graduate School 's Application . ","The CS&E Department will contact these individuals to provide a letter of recommendation for you . ","The CS&E department does not accept hard copies of recommendation letters , they must be submitted through the online system . ","Curriculum Vitae or Resume This should include : Educational background and degrees Teaching or research experience A list of papers\/publications -LRB- URLs included -RRB- Computer languages in which you are proficient Other information that will advance your application can be uploaded in PDF or text format , PDF is preferred Transcripts Unofficial transcripts must be uploaded directly to the CS&E Application . ","Official transcripts are required for those students admitted to the program . ","Do not fax or mail hard copies of your transcripts as it will significantly delay the processing of your application **** Unfortunately , the CS&E department is unable to make document corrections once your application has been submitted . ","**** Back to top Contact | Employment | Site map CS&E Twin Cities Campus : Maps & Directions Parking & Transportation Contact U of M Privacy Directories © 2015 Regents of the University of Minnesota . ","All rights reserved . ","The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer . "],"Itoeflcode":["6874"],"Itoefl":["23"]}