{"Igrecode":["3917"],"ORGANIZATION":["Instructions | College of Information and Computer Sciences Calendar Directions The University SEARCH Faculty + Research Faculty Directory Tenure Track and Research Faculty Emeriti Faculty Lecturers , Research Scientists","Multi-Agent Systems Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Electronic Teaching Foundations of Computing Information Retrieval","Data Mining Machine Learning Networking","Distributed Systems","Security Robotics","Computer Vision","Graphics Software Systems and Architecture Research Groups Faculty Achievements Publications Software Admissions","Biology Environmental Science Healthcare Mathematics Career Options Award-winning Teachers Undergrad","CS Scholarships & Fellowships Prospective Graduates Undergraduate Preparation Degree Programs Application Instructions Admissions FAQ Bay State Fellowship Program For Grads Graduate Program Life","Amherst Resources Support Awards Fees PhD Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Synthesis Project Portfolio Committee and Proposal Defense and Graduation Other Program Information MS\/PhD Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Synthesis","MS Project Portfolio Committee and Proposal Defense and Graduation Other Program Information MS Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Graduation Student Forms Academic Progress Courses Overrides For Undergrads Undergraduate Program BS B.S. Specialty Tracks Security & Privacy Robotics","Vision","Graphics Artificial Intelligence Computer Architecture Networking Programming Languages & Compilers Search and Data Mining Software Engineering Software Systems Theory of Computation BA CS Minor Honors Admissions Requirements Timeline Research Advisors Second Bachelor","BDIC -RRB- IT Minor Courses Registration & Advising CS Advising for F15 ACE Overrides Major Change","CS Subplan Change for BS Course Placement-Bypass\/Waiver Request Transfer Students Transfer Course Equivalencies Resources and Events Student Organizations Scholarships & Fellowships Contact Us FAQ Outreach Outreach Programs CAITE Industrial Affiliates Student Outreach Committee Jobs Faculty and Research Jobs Staff Jobs Student Jobs Departmental Jobs On-Campus Jobs Internships and Research Experiences Off-Campus Jobs Off-Campus Teaching Related Positions Off-Campus Events People Faculty Directory Grad Directory Graduating PhDs Graduating MS Students Staff Directory Alums CS Women About Contact Information About UMass Computer Science Amherst & the Pioneer Valley Visiting the College of Information & Computer Sciences","College of Information and Computer Sciences Computing Facilities Online Services CSpublic Community WIKI Support CS Donate","Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduates Undergraduate Preparation Degree Programs Application Instructions Admissions FAQ Bay State Fellowship Program Have","Graduate Program Application","Graduate Admissions Office","College of Information and Computer Sciences","Graduate Programs","ETS University Code","Graduate Admissions Office","Graduate Admissions Office","GRE","University of Massachusetts","GRE","TOEFL","Graduate School","GRE","GRE","GRE","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","University Graduate School","TOEFL","TOEFL","The University of Massachusetts Amherst","Graduate Student Service Center","TOEFL","Graduate Admissions Office","ETS University","Graduate Admissions Office","University of Massachusetts","GRE","GRE","College of Information and Computer Sciences","Graduate Admissions Office","Computer Science Building 140 Governors Drive University of Massachusetts Amherst","© 2015 University of Massachusetts Amherst","College of Information and Computer Sciences"],"LOCATION":["Amherst","U.S.","MA"],"DATE":["December 15","older than five years","2 years"],"Irecommendation":["2"],"Igre":["160","155","4.0"],"PERSON":["John Tuttle Stevie Sellers Matt Marzilli Byron Wallace Ashley Prudden Prospective Undergraduates Admission CS Tours Transfer Students CS Major CS Minor Getting Started"],"Ideadline":["December 15"],"Sentences":["Application Instructions | College of Information and Computer Sciences Calendar Directions The University SEARCH Faculty + Research Faculty Directory Tenure Track and Research Faculty Emeriti Faculty Lecturers , Research Scientists and Adjunct Professors Research Clusters Autonomous and Multi-Agent Systems Computational Biology and Bioinformatics Electronic Teaching Foundations of Computing Information Retrieval , Databases , and Data Mining Machine Learning Networking , Distributed Systems , and Security Robotics , Computer Vision , and Graphics Software Systems and Architecture Research Groups Faculty Achievements Publications Software Admissions Introduction Why choose CS ? ","CS and other fields Biology Environmental Science Healthcare Mathematics Career Options Award-winning Teachers Undergrad Profiles John Tuttle Stevie Sellers Matt Marzilli Byron Wallace Ashley Prudden Prospective Undergraduates Admission CS Tours Transfer Students CS Major CS Minor Getting Started in CS Scholarships & Fellowships Prospective Graduates Undergraduate Preparation Degree Programs Application Instructions Admissions FAQ Bay State Fellowship Program For Grads Graduate Program Life as a Grad Student Arriving in Amherst Resources Support Awards Fees PhD Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Synthesis Project Portfolio Committee and Proposal Defense and Graduation Other Program Information MS\/PhD Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Synthesis and MS Project Portfolio Committee and Proposal Defense and Graduation Other Program Information MS Requirements Core Requirements Course Requirements Graduation Student Forms Academic Progress Courses Overrides For Undergrads Undergraduate Program BS B.S. Specialty Tracks Security & Privacy Robotics , Vision , and Graphics Artificial Intelligence Computer Architecture Networking Programming Languages & Compilers Search and Data Mining Software Engineering Software Systems Theory of Computation BA CS Minor Honors Admissions Requirements Timeline Research Advisors Second Bachelor 's Degree -LRB- Post Grads -RRB- Informatics in CS - -LRB- BDIC -RRB- IT Minor Courses Registration & Advising CS Advising for F15 ACE Overrides Major Change to CS Subplan Change for BS Course Placement-Bypass\/Waiver Request Transfer Students Transfer Course Equivalencies Resources and Events Student Organizations Scholarships & Fellowships Contact Us FAQ Outreach Outreach Programs CAITE Industrial Affiliates Student Outreach Committee Jobs Faculty and Research Jobs Staff Jobs Student Jobs Departmental Jobs On-Campus Jobs Internships and Research Experiences Off-Campus Jobs Off-Campus Teaching Related Positions Off-Campus Events People Faculty Directory Grad Directory Graduating PhDs Graduating MS Students Staff Directory Alums CS Women About Contact Information About UMass Computer Science Amherst & the Pioneer Valley Visiting the College of Information & Computer Sciences Newsletters Alum Matters Back Issues SigBits Back Issues History of the College of Information and Computer Sciences Computing Facilities Online Services CSpublic Community WIKI Support CS Donate to CS Donate Now ! ","Provide your Email Address Recent Donors Join LinkedIn Join Facebook Subscribe to Significant Bits Alumni Matters Back Issues SigBits Back Issues Admissions Introduction Why choose CS ? ","Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduates Undergraduate Preparation Degree Programs Application Instructions Admissions FAQ Bay State Fellowship Program Have admissions questions ? ","Email us at csinfo -LSB- at -RSB- cs -LSB- dot -RSB- umass -LSB- dot -RSB- edu . ","Application to the Graduate Program Application materials should be sent directly to the Graduate Admissions Office -LRB- not to the College of Information and Computer Sciences , which would only delay processing -RRB- . ","Deadline Information The full-time graduate program admission deadline is December 15 for Fall enrollment . ","Our full-time graduate program does not offer Spring admission . ","We also do not offer online and part time Graduate Programs at this time . ","Application Materials All Students are required to submit the following : Online Application -LRB- if you get an error page , try closing all browser tabs and try again -RRB- Personal Statement Transcripts 2 Letters of Recommendation -LRB- References can submit their letters through the online system , snail mail to the admissions office , or in . ","pdf form to gradadm -LSB- at -RSB- grad -LSB- dot -RSB- umass -LSB- dot -RSB- edu -RRB- Official GRE Scores -LRB- ETS University Code is 3917 , there is no Dept. Code -RRB- TOEFL Scores - -LRB- click here for exemption information -RRB- We strongly recommend that all students submit required materials to the Graduate Admissions Office before the deadline to ensure appropriate consideration . ","Although application files are started when credentials are received , you can expedite the processing of your graduate application by making sure that your application is submitted to the Graduate Admissions Office before requesting that transcripts , GRE scores and two letters of recommendation are sent . ","Ensure that all credentials , especially `` older '' transcripts , have your name in the same form as it appears on your application . ","If you are a foreign student , it helps to underline your family name for easy filing . ","Standardized Test Scores Although the University of Massachusetts requires official GRE and TOEFL score reports , the Graduate School is willing to accept certified or notarized copies of these reports when foreign exchange creates a financial burden on the applicant . ","GRE The GRE test is required . ","Although standardized tests are by no means the only criteria considered , historically successful applicants average 600 + \/ 4.0 in each of the three areas -LRB- verbal , quantitative , written -RRB- . ","Based on the new scale we expect the average would be 160 + -LRB- verbal -RRB- , 155 + -LRB- Quantitative -RRB- , 4.0 -LRB- Written -RRB- . ","GRE 's can be retaken . ","Both scores will be included in your application . ","If your GRE General Test scores are older than five years from your anticipated date of entrance , you must retake the examination . ","Waivers of this policy will not be granted . ","TOEFL The TOEFL is required for foreign students . ","This is a University Graduate School requirement . ","Applicants who do not score an 80 or above in the iBT are not encouraged to apply . ","TOEFL may be waived if the applicant has attended on a full-time basis an American college or university for a period of at least two academic years immediately preceding anticipated entrance date . ","TOEFL scores are valid for 2 years from expected entrance date . ","The University of Massachusetts Amherst also accepts the IELTS -LRB- International English Language Testing System -RRB- and PTE Academic -LRB- Pearson Test of English -RRB- . ","The official test scores must be mailed to the Graduate Student Service Center . ","The minimum combined IELTS score needed is 6.5 Be sure to have your TOEFL score -LRB- or a copy of the results -RRB- sent to the Graduate Admissions Office as soon as possible . ","The ETS University code is 3917 , there is no Dept. code . ","Application Fee The Graduate Admissions Office can not consider any application for admission to the University of Massachusetts , Amherst , unless that application is accompanied by the required fee . ","United States Citizens : A waiver of this fee is available only to those U.S. citizens who are currently enrolled as full-time undergraduate students and who have qualified for a waiver of the GRE fee through their undergraduate financial aid office . ","A statement from a college or university financial aid officer attesting to receipt of , or eligibility for , the GRE fee waiver must accompany the application . ","Foreign applicants : Submission of the application processing fee is required . ","Neither the College of Information and Computer Sciences , nor the Graduate Admissions Office , has any authority to waive or defer this fee under any circumstance . ","Please make sure that your application fee check is securely attached to your application . ","Remember , your application will not be processed if the fee is not enclosed . ","Computer Science Building 140 Governors Drive University of Massachusetts Amherst , MA 01003-9264 phone : 413.545.2744 fax : 413.545.1249 email : www-admin -LSB- at -RSB- cics -LSB- dot -RSB- umass -LSB- dot -RSB- edu © 2015 University of Massachusetts Amherst . ","Site Policies This site is maintained by the College of Information and Computer Sciences . "],"Itoeflcode":["3917"],"Itoefl":["80"]}