{"Igrecode":["1846"],"LOCATION":["M.S.","M.S.","WI"],"ORGANIZATION":["UW-Madison Computer Sciences Department Skip","UW-Madison Computer Sciences Department Authenticated Services CSL My UW UW-Madison Search","Board of Visitors Education Courses Graduate Programs Undergraduate programs Scholarship & Award Opportunities Research Connect Industrial Affiliates Student Job Listings CS Job Fair Programming Contests Fiftieth Anniversary","Department of Computer Sciences","Graduate School","Graduate School Admission Requirements","Graduate School Application","Department of Computer Sciences","Graduate School Application","Graduate School Application","CS Supplemental Application","CS Supplemental Application","CS Supplemental Application","Graduate School","CS Supplemental Application","Graduate School","Graduate School Application","GRE","Graduate School","UW","GRE","Graduate School","TOEFL","TOEFL","Graduate School Admission Requirements","CS Supplemental Application","Graduate School","Graduate School","feedback@cs.wisc.edu University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Computer Sciences 1210 W. Dayton St. Madison"],"DATE":["Fall 2015","September 4","March 7","April 15 2","December 15","1846","December 1","2014 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Feedback"],"Irecommendation":["three"],"Ideadline":["December 15"],"Sentences":["Application procedure -LRB- for regular M.S. \/ Ph.D. program -RRB- | UW-Madison Computer Sciences Department Skip to main content UW-Madison Computer Sciences Department Authenticated Services CSL My UW UW-Madison Search form Search Main menu About Location Contacts Events Feature Articles News Items Employment People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Undergraduate Students Board of Visitors Education Courses Graduate Programs Undergraduate programs Scholarship & Award Opportunities Research Connect Industrial Affiliates Student Job Listings CS Job Fair Programming Contests Fiftieth Anniversary Celebration Give You are here Education '' Graduate Programs Application procedure -LRB- for regular M.S. \/ Ph.D. program -RRB- TRANSCRIPT PROCEDURE for applicants applying for Fall 2015 admission : Do not send paper transcripts . ","You must scan official transcript -LRB- s -RRB- issued by your postsecondary academic institution -LRB- s -RRB- into the CS Supplemental Application instead . ","1 . ","Background The Department of Computer Sciences admits graduate students once a year , for the fall semester . ","The application is made online through the Graduate School . ","If you are reapplying to the department , you must submit a new application . ","Important Dates Application Period Begins : September 4 Application Deadline : December 15 Acceptance Offers Made : About March 7 Deadline for Accepting Offers : April 15 2 . ","Application Process Please review the Graduate School Admission Requirements . ","Please fill out the Graduate School Application . ","Please note that certain extra information -LRB- interest areas , etc. -RRB- is required by the Department of Computer Sciences . ","Our Supplemental Application for this purpose is now included with the Graduate School Application . ","Completing the application is a two-step procedure . ","First , you must complete the Graduate School Application and submit it . ","Next , you must complete the CS Supplemental Application and submit it . ","Both parts of the application may be completed at the same time , or you can log back in to complete the CS Supplemental Application later . ","Please be sure you submit the CS Supplemental Application once you have completed it . ","Both parts must be submitted by December 15 . ","Once your Graduate School application is submitted and your CS Supplemental Application is submitted , you are unable to make changes . ","Please check your application for accuracy and thoroughness before submitting it . ","Note that your application is not considered complete until the Graduate School 's application fee is paid . ","3 . ","Important Details We require three electronic letters of recommendation . ","Directions for these can be found with the Graduate School Application . ","We require the GRE General Test , but not the subject GRE . ","Please arrange for test scores to be sent electronically -LRB- no paper copies -RRB- to the Graduate School by using the UW-Madison institution code -LRB- 1846 -RRB- . ","Since the UW stores scores in a centralized database , the department code you choose does not matter . ","To ensure full review of your application , please plan to take the GRE General test no later than December 1 . ","The Graduate School requires the TOEFL or IELTS exam for international applicants unless they qualify for an automatic waiver . ","For further information on TOEFL requirements , please see the Graduate School Admission Requirements . ","We require that you scan a copy of your official transcript -LRB- issued by your college or university -RRB- from each college or university you have attended and upload it to your Supplemental Application . ","Please note : although many colleges now allow students access to their academic record to print , we do not consider this an offical transcript ! ","You must obtain an offical paper transcript and scan it into your Supplemental Application . ","The CS Supplemental Application is part of the Graduate School 's online application . ","Your application will be considered incomplete unless it contains uploaded official transcripts from each postsecondary institution you have attended . ","Please do not mail transcripts to the department or the Graduate School . ","No paper transcripts will be accepted during the application process . ","If you are offered admission , you will be required to submit paper official transcripts . ","Please do not send them until they are requested . ","© 2014 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Feedback , questions or issues : feedback@cs.wisc.edu University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Computer Sciences 1210 W. Dayton St. Madison , WI 53706-1613 Phone : 608-262-1204 Site Last Updated : 04\/27\/2015 Department Login "]}