{"Igrecode":["4852"],"ORGANIZATION":["- Department of Computer Science - Viterbi School of Engineering","Home About Academics Research News & Events People Student Resources Admission Admission Academic Programs B.S. Application Information M.S. Application Information Ph.D.","Computer Science Department","USC Graduate Admission Application","Three Letters of Recommendation Any","Department of Computer Science","USC Office of Admission","GRE","TOEFL","USC Office of Admission","USC Office of Admission GRADUATE University Park Campus Los Angeles","DHL","University of Southern California USC Office of Admission and Financial Aid 3601 South Flower Street"],"LOCATION":["California","Los Angeles"],"DATE":["December 15th"],"Irecommendation":["Three"],"Iaddress":["USC Office of Admission GRADUATE University Park Campus Los Angeles , California 90089-0915","University of Southern California USC Office of Admission and Financial Aid 3601 South Flower Street , Tyler 1 Los Angeles , CA 90089-0915"],"Ideadline":["Fall Semester - December 15th"],"Sentences":["USC - Department of Computer Science - Viterbi School of Engineering - Ph.D. . ","Application Information Twitter Facebook YouTube Social Media Please enter your search term and submit the form Home About Academics Research News & Events People Student Resources Admission Admission Academic Programs B.S. Application Information M.S. Application Information Ph.D. . ","Application Information Ph.D. . ","Application Information PhD Program - Application Information : Application Deadline : Fall Semester - December 15th . ","* Please note : The Computer Science Department does not accept applications for the Spring semester . ","How to Apply : Complete and submit the electronic USC Graduate Admission Application . ","Required Documents : Required documents to be submitted with the online application : Statement of Purpose Resume Minimum of Three Letters of Recommendation Any published papers , research reports , etc. . ","Please note : The Department of Computer Science does not accept hard copies of recommendation letters , personal statements , resumes or any other supporting documents . ","We will not be able to upload documents to your application . ","Required documents to be submitted directly to the USC Office of Admission : Official Transcripts from all colleges and universities attended . ","GRE scores : Institution Code : 4852 TOEFL scores , If applicable : Institution Code : 4852 The above documents should be sent directly to the USC Office of Admission at the following address : USC Office of Admission GRADUATE University Park Campus Los Angeles , California 90089-0915 If you use a courier service , such as DHL or FedEx , send your material to this address : University of Southern California USC Office of Admission and Financial Aid 3601 South Flower Street , Tyler 1 Los Angeles , CA 90089-0915 Questions ? ","For questions about general admission process , please email the Ph.D. advisor at : ldeleon@usc.edu Due to high volume of Ph.D. applications we are not able to answer status or decision questions over the phone or email . ","The department will contact you directly if you have any missing application materials . ","University of Southern California - Department of Computer Science - Viterbi School of Engineering "],"Itoeflcode":["4852"]}