{"Igrecode":["R4836","0402"],"ORGANIZATION":["CSE Graduate Admissions | Computer Science and Engineering Skip to Content Search About CSE Department Overview CSE Colloquium \/ DLS 2014-2015 2013-2014 2012-2013 2011-2012 Archive Chair 's Message Awards & Accomplishments Directions & Parking Contact CSE CSE News CSE","CSE People Overview CSE Directory Faculty Profiles Researchers & Postdocs Staff","CSE Inspiring Imaginations Initiative Alumni Survey Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Overview Artificial Intelligence Bioinformatics Computer Architecture Alumni Archive Publications Archive Databases & Information Management Embedded Systems & Software High-Performance Computing Programming Systems Security & Cryptography Software Engineering Systems & Networking Theory Publications Archive Lab Theory Reading Group","Visual Computing Computer Graphics Computer Vision Awards & Accomplishments Associated Centers Associated Centers Faculty Research Profiles Technical Reports Search Help Submission Help Graduate Education Graduate Studies Degree Programs","CS Requirements Summary M.S. Degree Requirements Summary MS CS Approved Concentration MS CE Approved Concentration 2002-2008 MS CS Requirements 2002-2008 MS CE Requirements Exams PhD Research Examination Guidelines & Policies Sample Exams Pre-Fall 2001 Overview Pre-Fall 2001 Modified Exam MS Project Presentation Examples Financial Opportunities Teaching Assistantships Apply Research Assistantships Scholarships","Comps Quick Reference Guide Internship Placement Statistics 2010 2009 2008 Graduate Student Life Women in Computing ChezBob Q&A CSE Student Affairs Office Hours Undergraduate Education Undergraduate Studies WASC Educational Learning Undergraduate Program FAQ Admissions Advising Degree Programs CSE Honors Program Courses Financial Opportunities Research","CSE CSE Alumni Administration Messages","MSO Academic Affairs Academic Appointment & Review Visiting Scholars Financial Affairs Contract & Grants Fund Administration Expenditures Travel Human Resources Personnel Payroll Benefits Recruitment Computing Support Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Non-CSE Students Faculty Staff Policy Facilities Maintenance & Housekeeping Telephones Keys & Security Emergency Plan Parking Common Areas Resources for New Employees Resources for Current Faculty Resources","UCSD CSE Graduate Admissions UCSD CSE Graduate Admissions Updated December 1 , 2014","Department of Computer Science & Engineering","UCSD CSE","UCSD Graduate Online","Admittance","CSE","CSE Admissions Committee","Computer Science and Engineering","Concurrent Enrollment Program","Graduate Division Online","CSE","CSE","UCSD GRE","CSE Department Code","ETS","UCSD","GRE","GRE","TOEFL","TOEFL","CSE Department Code","ETS","UCSD","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","TOEFL","UCSD Application for Graduate Admission","Prospective Student","Graduate Division","UCSD","CSE","Graduate Division","CSE","The University of California","Graduate Education Graduate Studies Degree Programs","CS Requirements Summary M.S. Degree Requirements Summary MS CS Approved Concentration MS CE Approved Concentration 2002-2008 MS CS Requirements 2002-2008 MS CE Requirements Exams PhD Research Examination Guidelines & Policies Sample Exams Pre-Fall 2001 Overview Pre-Fall 2001 Modified Exam MS Project Presentation Examples Financial Opportunities Teaching Assistantships Apply Research Assistantships Scholarships","Comps Quick Reference Guide Internship Placement Statistics 2010 2009 2008 Graduate Student Life Women in Computing ChezBob Q&A CSE Student Affairs Office Hours Resources for Undergraduate Students - Program FAQs Prospective Students Prospective Faculty & Staff Career Connections Alumni","CSE Department Overview CSE Colloquium \/ DLS Chair 's Message Awards & Accomplishments Directions & Parking Contact CSE CSE News CSE","CSE People Overview CSE Directory Faculty Profiles Researchers & Postdocs Staff Graduating PhDs CSE Alumni Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Overview Awards & Accomplishments Associated Centers Faculty Research Profiles Technical Reports Graduate Education Graduate Studies Degree Programs Admissions Courses Advising Financial Opportunities Resources Graduate Student Life CSE Student Affairs Office Hours Undergraduate Education Undergraduate Studies Admissions Advising Degree Programs CSE Honors Program Courses Financial Opportunities Research","CSE CSE Alumni Administration Messages","MSO Academic Affairs Financial Affairs Human Resources Computing Support Facilities Resources for New Employees Resources for Current Faculty Resources for Current Staff Contact CSE","University of California","University of California"],"LOCATION":["UC San Diego","San Diego","San Diego"],"DATE":["2014-2015 2013-2014 2012-2013 2011-2012 2010-2011 2009-2010 2008-2009 2007-2008 2006-2007 2005-2006 2004-2005 2003-2004 CSE Alumni Board Members Board Information Mission Statement Become","Fall 2015","December 15 , 2014","fall quarter","the year","4836","2015"],"Ideadline":["December 15 , 2014"],"Sentences":["UCSD CSE Graduate Admissions | Computer Science and Engineering Skip to Content Search About CSE Department Overview CSE Colloquium \/ DLS 2014-2015 2013-2014 2012-2013 2011-2012 Archive Chair 's Message Awards & Accomplishments Directions & Parking Contact CSE CSE News CSE Newsletters Our Building Additional Renderings Site Map CSE People Overview CSE Directory Faculty Profiles Researchers & Postdocs Staff Graduating PhDs 2014-2015 2013-2014 2012-2013 2011-2012 2010-2011 2009-2010 2008-2009 2007-2008 2006-2007 2005-2006 2004-2005 2003-2004 CSE Alumni Board Members Board Information Mission Statement Become a Member Upcoming Meetings Past Meeting Minutes Giving to CSE Inspiring Imaginations Initiative Alumni Survey Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Overview Artificial Intelligence Bioinformatics Computer Architecture Alumni Archive Publications Archive Databases & Information Management Embedded Systems & Software High-Performance Computing Programming Systems Security & Cryptography Software Engineering Systems & Networking Theory Publications Archive Lab Theory Reading Group Theory Seminar Ubiquitous Computing VLSI\/CAD -LRB- Computer-Aided Design -RRB- Visual Computing Computer Graphics Computer Vision Awards & Accomplishments Associated Centers Associated Centers Faculty Research Profiles Technical Reports Search Help Submission Help Graduate Education Graduate Studies Degree Programs PhD MS Master of Advanced Studies -LRB- MAS -RRB- BS\/MS-Combined University-wide Requirements Admissions Application Checklist Admissions FAQ BS\/MS - Combined Courses Course Descriptions 2011-2012 Schedule 2012-2013 Schedule 2013-2014 Schedule 2014-2015 Schedule Class Home Pages Advising New Student Info PhD CE Requirements Summary PhD CS Requirements Summary M.S. Degree Requirements Summary MS CS Approved Concentration MS CE Approved Concentration 2002-2008 MS CS Requirements 2002-2008 MS CE Requirements Exams PhD Research Examination Guidelines & Policies Sample Exams Pre-Fall 2001 Overview Pre-Fall 2001 Modified Exam MS Project Presentation Examples Financial Opportunities Teaching Assistantships Apply Research Assistantships Scholarships and Fellowships Resources Steps to Passing the Comps Quick Reference Guide Internship Placement Statistics 2010 2009 2008 Graduate Student Life Women in Computing ChezBob Q&A CSE Student Affairs Office Hours Undergraduate Education Undergraduate Studies WASC Educational Learning Undergraduate Program FAQ Admissions Advising Degree Programs CSE Honors Program Courses Financial Opportunities Research , Internships and Career Opportunities Student Life in CSE CSE Alumni Administration Messages from Chair & MSO Academic Affairs Academic Appointment & Review Visiting Scholars Financial Affairs Contract & Grants Fund Administration Expenditures Travel Human Resources Personnel Payroll Benefits Recruitment Computing Support Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Non-CSE Students Faculty Staff Policy Facilities Maintenance & Housekeeping Telephones Keys & Security Emergency Plan Parking Common Areas Resources for New Employees Resources for Current Faculty Resources for Current Staff Contact CSE Home '' Graduate Education '' UCSD CSE Graduate Admissions UCSD CSE Graduate Admissions Updated December 1 , 2014 We appreciate your interest in the graduate program in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at UC San Diego . ","We offer PhD and MS degrees in both computer science and computer engineering . ","We also have a streamlined 5-year BS\/MS program for highly qualified UCSD CSE undergraduates . ","A Message From the Chair The UCSD Graduate Online application deadline for Fall 2015 admission to the Ph.D. and MS programs is December 15 , 2014 . ","-LRB- Admittance is for fall quarter only -RRB- . ","All application documents are submitted to the online application . ","For information about the online application and required supplemental documents , please refer to : Application Checklist and Guidelines . ","Admission to the CSE graduate program is very selective . ","Our department receives over 2,700 applications annually . ","We seek applicants with a strong academic background in computer science and engineering and\/or a related field and a demonstrated potential for success in graduate school . ","Each application undergoes a comprehensive review by the CSE Admissions Committee , which examines every component of the application and supplemental materials when considering an applicant for admission . ","-LRB- Standardized test scores and grade point averages -LRB- GPA -RRB- are an integral part of the evaluation process , but admissions decisions are NOT made based on these components alone . -RRB- ","The MS and PhD degree programs are mutually independent . ","Current students in the MS program who wish to continue in the PhD program must submit an internal application by the general application deadline for the year they are seeking admission . ","The application will be reviewed along with those of the external PhD applicants for that admissions cycle . ","-LRB- An MS degree is not required for admission to the PhD program . -RRB- ","Please contact the Graduate Admissions Director , at gradinfo@cs.ucsd.edu for more information . ","If you are interested in enrolling in Computer Science and Engineering classes without being matriculated in a degree program you may do so through the Concurrent Enrollment Program . ","Graduate Admission Requirements To be considered for admission , applicants must meet the minimum university and departmental requirements outlined below . ","Note : All application documents are submitted to the Graduate Division Online application at https:\/\/gradapply.ucsd.edu . ","Prerequisites : A bachelor 's degree in computer science , computer engineering , electrical engineering , or mathematics is preferred , but not required . ","Applicants with a degree in another discipline will be considered for admission if they have completed the minimum required CSE courses or their equivalent . ","However , it is recommended that applicants without a CSE background take courses beyond the minimum to demonstrate an ability to understand more advanced concepts in computer science and engineering . ","GPA : The university requires that domestic graduate applicants have a minimum undergraduate grade point average -LRB- GPA -RRB- of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale . ","-LRB- International applicants do NOT have a minimum-GPA requirement but should have above average marks for their institution . -RRB- ","GRE : The General Test of the Graduate Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- is required of all applicants . ","An official ETS-reported score must be submitted for an applicant to be admitted into the graduate program . ","The UCSD GRE Institution Code is R4836 , and the CSE Department Code is 0402 . ","Applicants should request that ETS submit the scores directly to the UCSD institution code R4836 . ","For more information on the GRE , visit the GRE website . ","TOEFL : The Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- is required for international applicants whose native language is not English and who have not studied full-time at a university-level institution in an English-speaking country for one uninterrupted academic year . ","An official ETS-reported score must be submitted for an applicant to be admitted into the graduate program . ","The UCSD TOEFL Institution Code is 4836 , and the CSE Department Code is 78 . ","Applicants should request that ETS submit the scores directly to the UCSD institution code R4836 . ","The university minimum TOEFL score required for admission is 550 for the paper-and-pencil version , 213 for the computer-based test or 80 for the internet-based test -LRB- iBT -RRB- . ","For more information on the TOEFL , visit the TOEFL website . ","The Test of Spoken English -LRB- TSE -RRB- is not required . ","*** No other test of english may be used to substitute for taking the TOEFL . ","If you meet the minimum requirements outlined above , we encourage you to apply to our graduate program . ","To apply , please use the on-line UCSD Application for Graduate Admission . ","For a complete list of all of the supplemental materials required for the graduate application , please visit our graduate application checklist . ","Additional questions about admission into our graduate program may be answered on our Graduate Admissions FAQ page . ","Please also see the Prospective Student web pages of the Graduate Division . ","Normally , UCSD does not permit the duplication of advanced degrees . ","-LRB- Previous professional degrees , however , are not included in this restriction . -RRB- ","Holders of a master 's degree in one field may be considered under certain circumstances for admission into a master 's degree program in another field . ","Prospective applicants who already hold a master 's degree and are considering applying to CSE 's MS program should contact the Graduate Division at gradadmissions@ucsd.edu to find out if they can be exempted from the duplicate degree policy . ","Holders of a PhD , in any field , are advised not to apply for admission to the CSE department 's PhD program . ","Contact Information If you still have questions for which you could not find an answer on our web site , please email us at gradinfo@cs.ucsd.edu . ","The University of California , San Diego does not discriminate on the basis of race , color , national origin , religion , sex , disability , age or sexual orientation in any of its policies , procedures , or practices , including but not limited to academic admission , financial aid , educational services , and student employment . ","Graduate Education Graduate Studies Degree Programs PhD MS Master of Advanced Studies -LRB- MAS -RRB- BS\/MS-Combined University-wide Requirements Admissions Application Checklist Admissions FAQ BS\/MS - Combined Courses Course Descriptions 2011-2012 Schedule 2012-2013 Schedule 2013-2014 Schedule 2014-2015 Schedule Class Home Pages Advising New Student Info PhD CE Requirements Summary PhD CS Requirements Summary M.S. Degree Requirements Summary MS CS Approved Concentration MS CE Approved Concentration 2002-2008 MS CS Requirements 2002-2008 MS CE Requirements Exams PhD Research Examination Guidelines & Policies Sample Exams Pre-Fall 2001 Overview Pre-Fall 2001 Modified Exam MS Project Presentation Examples Financial Opportunities Teaching Assistantships Apply Research Assistantships Scholarships and Fellowships Resources Steps to Passing the Comps Quick Reference Guide Internship Placement Statistics 2010 2009 2008 Graduate Student Life Women in Computing ChezBob Q&A CSE Student Affairs Office Hours Resources for Undergraduate Students - Program FAQs Prospective Students Prospective Faculty & Staff Career Connections Alumni footer menu About CSE Department Overview CSE Colloquium \/ DLS Chair 's Message Awards & Accomplishments Directions & Parking Contact CSE CSE News CSE Newsletters Our Building Site Map CSE People Overview CSE Directory Faculty Profiles Researchers & Postdocs Staff Graduating PhDs CSE Alumni Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Overview Awards & Accomplishments Associated Centers Faculty Research Profiles Technical Reports Graduate Education Graduate Studies Degree Programs Admissions Courses Advising Financial Opportunities Resources Graduate Student Life CSE Student Affairs Office Hours Undergraduate Education Undergraduate Studies Admissions Advising Degree Programs CSE Honors Program Courses Financial Opportunities Research , Internships and Career Opportunities Student Life in CSE CSE Alumni Administration Messages from Chair & MSO Academic Affairs Financial Affairs Human Resources Computing Support Facilities Resources for New Employees Resources for Current Faculty Resources for Current Staff Contact CSE All Content Copyright © 2015 Regents of the University of California . ","All rights reserved . ","Official Web page of the University of California , San Diego . ","Login Copyright © 2015 . ","sa_page | about seo "],"Igpa":["3.0"],"Itoeflcode":["R4836","4836","78"],"Itoefl":["550 for the paper-and-pencil version , 213 for the computer-based test or 80 for the internet-based test"]}