{"Igrecode":["4837","0402"],"LOCATION":["M.S.","M.S.","M.S.","United States","M.S.","U.S.","M.S."],"MONEY":["at least $ 50,000"],"Irecommendation":["THREE -LRB- 3 -RRB-"],"PERSON":["M.S.","Eugene V. Cota-Robles"],"Iaddress":["Graduate Student Affairs Office UCLA Computer Science Department 4403 Boelter Hall Los Angeles , CA 90095-1596"],"Ideadline":["DECEMBER 1 , 23:59 , PST","December 1","December 1","December 1"],"Igpa":["3.5","3.50","3.60","3.0","3.0"],"Itoeflcode":["4837"],"Itoefl":["87 -LRB- computer-based -RRB- or 560 -LRB- paper-based -RRB-"],"ORGANIZATION":["UCLA Computer Science Graduate Admission Requirements Skip","Sections About Chair 's Welcome Mission Statement History Academic And Staff Positions Industrial Affiliates Program Annual Reports Administration Visitor Information News Faculty Awards & News Student Awards & News Archived","Year Events Seminars Faculty Candidate Talks Jon Postel Distinguished Lecturer Series 2014-2015 Calendars Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Course Homepages UCLA Course Schedule Admissions Graduate Undergraduate Research Research Labs Research Centers Technical Reports People Faculty Staff Lecturers Graduate Students Alumni Student Organizations Faculty Recruitment Resources Computing Facility SEASnet Computing Facility Engineering Library Forms","Computer Science Graduate Program","UCLA","GRE","TOEFL","Graduate Division","M.S.","M.S.","PST","UCLA","UCLA Graduate Division","UCLA","Graduate Division","UCLA","Graduate Division Recommendation","Electrical Engineering Recommendation","Computer Science","UCLA","CS","Graduate Division","UCLA Graduate Division","UCLA","UCLA","GRE","M.S.","GRE","GRE","UCLA Graduate Division","GRE","UCLA","The Computer Science","UCLA","UCLA Graduate Division","GRE","GRE","GRE","UCLA","TOEFL","TOEFL","UCLA","The Computer Science","UCLA","UCLA Graduate Division","TOEFL","CS","TOEFL","UCLA","UCLA Graduate Division","CS","Graduate Division","SOP","UCLA Graduate Division","Graduate Division","Graduate Student Affairs Office UCLA Computer Science Department 4403 Boelter Hall Los Angeles","UCLA Graduate Division","Graduate Opportunity Fellowship Program","GOFP","UCLA Graduate Division","UCLA Graduate Division","Computer Science Graduate Student Affairs Office","CS Graduate Admissions","UCLA Engineering Copyright © 2015 UCLA UCLA Home"],"DATE":["recent years","DECEMBER 1","the fall quarter","between mid-September","December 1","years","December 1","December 1","December 15","December 1","December 1","December 1","December 15","November 30","five -LRB- 5 -RRB- years","December 1","November","two -LRB- 2 -RRB- years","December 1","November","the end of February","the end of March","December 1","the first year","early March"],"Sentences":["Graduate Admission Requirements -- UCLA Computer Science Graduate Admission Requirements Skip to content . ","| Skip to navigation Sections About Chair 's Welcome Mission Statement History Academic And Staff Positions Industrial Affiliates Program Annual Reports Administration Visitor Information News Faculty Awards & News Student Awards & News Archived by Year Events Seminars Faculty Candidate Talks Jon Postel Distinguished Lecturer Series 2014-2015 Calendars Academics Graduate Program Undergraduate Program Course Homepages UCLA Course Schedule Admissions Graduate Undergraduate Research Research Labs Research Centers Technical Reports People Faculty Staff Lecturers Graduate Students Alumni Student Organizations Faculty Recruitment Resources Computing Facility SEASnet Computing Facility Engineering Library Forms FAQs Personal tools Log in → Home → Academics → Graduate Program → Graduate Admission Requirements Info Graduate Admission Requirements We are pleased that you are interested in applying to the Computer Science Graduate Program at UCLA . ","The following information provides an overview of the requirements for admission to the department and an explanation of the application procedures . ","Additionally , see our Frequently Asked Questions page . ","BASIC REQUIREMENTS An applicant for admission must hold a bachelor 's degree from an accredited college or university , must have the necessary academic preparation to complete graduate level courses in Computer Science , and must be able to score competitively on the GRE test . ","International applicants must meet the university 's minimum requirement for the TOEFL or IELTS . ","Condition admission is not offered and a transitional or pre-master 's program is not available . ","GRADE POINT AVERAGE The most competitive applicants have an undergraduate cumulative GPA of at least 3.5 -LRB- on a 4.00 scale -RRB- , and at least a 3.50 in any graduate study . ","The average cumulative GPA of admitted applicants is 3.60 . ","The university requires a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 for consideration . ","The department reviews all applicants who have earned a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 . ","Staff in the computer science graduate student affairs office review and convert , as necessary , the marks or grades of all applicants . ","The Graduate Division online application asks applicants to submit their grade point average on the scale used by their institutions . ","DECIDING BETWEEN THE PH.D. . ","AND M.S. PROGRAMS Students may apply for either the Ph.D. program or the M.S. program but not both . ","Admission to the Ph.D. program is more selective than for the M.S. program . ","In general , the admissions committee does not consider Ph.D. applicants for admission into the M.S. program and vice versa . ","While a Ph.D. degree prepares students not only for careers in research and academia , Ph.D. applicants typically demonstrate significant achievement in and\/or potential for advancing knowledge through independent research and teaching . ","While a M.S. degree prepares students not only for careers in industry , M.S. applicants typically demonstrate interest in developing and applying technical skills and translational knowledge . ","M.S. applicants should be aware that the selection process is rigorous for M.S. students who later apply for admission into the Ph.D. program . ","Applicants who hold a master 's degree in computer science or a closely related discipline will not be considered for admission to the master 's program . ","Applicants who hold only a bachelor 's degree may apply to the Ph.D. program . ","In recent years , the majority of PhD admittees have completed only a bachelor 's degree . ","APPLYING FOR GRADUATE ADMISSION APPLICATION DEADLINE The deadline to submit an application for admission is DECEMBER 1 , 23:59 , PST . ","Students are admitted only once a year to start in the fall quarter only . ","Applications should be submitted only between mid-September and December 1 . ","UCLA GRADUATE DIVISION ONLINE APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION All applicants must complete a UCLA Graduate Division online application for admission . ","For more information about applying for graduate admission to UCLA , visit the Graduate Division webpage . ","All application material for the computer science department may be submitted through the online UCLA application website noted above . ","Material to be submitted includes the following : -LRB- 1 -RRB- Letters of Recommendation -LRB- NOTE : Please utilize the Graduate Division Recommendation , and NOT the Electrical Engineering Recommendation . -RRB- ","At least THREE -LRB- 3 -RRB- letters of recommendation must be submitted . ","For M.S. applicants : We recommend that you provide letters of reference from professors who have taught you in your junior and senior years . ","For Ph.D. applicants : We urge that all your letters be from academic or professional references as recent as possible and from people who can comment on your recent professional accomplishments and your qualifications for graduate study in Computer Science . ","If you have an M.S. degree , letters from professors who have served on your M.S. committee are particularly helpful . ","Letters are due December 1 . ","We will make every effort to review late letters received between December 1 and December 15 , but we can not guarantee that they will be included in the review . ","-LRB- 2 -RRB- Academic Transcripts -LRB- Not required from UCLA students and alumni . -RRB- ","All applicants are required to submit ONE -LRB- 1 -RRB- official transcript from each post-secondary institution attended . ","Official transcripts should be mailed to the CS department at the mailing address below to be received by the deadline of December 1 . ","We prefer to receive official documents directly from institutions , however , applicants may mail officially sealed and unopened envelopes to us . ","Applicants should mail transcripts as early as possible in the process and not wait until after completing the online application . ","Our office will match transcripts received early with online applications completed later . ","A cover sheet is not needed and no specific envelope formats or sizes are required . ","Official transcripts are defined as original documents issued by the institution that bear the actual signature of the Registrar -- not a photocopy -- and the seal of the issuing institution . ","Do not , however , send the original of an academic record that can not be replaced ; obtain a properly certified copy instead . ","International applicants should refer to the `` Requirements for International Students '' section of the Graduate Division webpage for information about submission of foreign academic records . ","We do not request or review WES evaluations . ","Applicants may submit unofficial transcripts on the Academic History\/Transcript Upload section of the UCLA Graduate Division online application . ","This may expedite the department 's initial review of the application , however , an admission offer can not be made without receipt of official transcripts . ","Official transcripts are due December 1 . ","We will make every effort to review late transcripts received between December 1 and December 15 , but we can not guarantee that they will be included in the review . ","UCLA students and alumni please note : You do not have to submit an official UCLA transcript . ","You may upload your MyUCLA record in the online application . ","-LRB- 3 -RRB- Graduate Record Examination -LRB- GRE -RRB- GRE scores on the General -LRB- Aptitude -RRB- test are required for admission to both the M.S. and Ph.D. programs . ","There is no minimum GRE score requirement . ","However , the most competitive applicants earn average or above average scores compared to the computer science applicant pool . ","-LRB- See Frequently Asked Questions for data . -RRB- ","All students applying for fall should take the GRE test no later than November 30 . ","The test must have been taken within five -LRB- 5 -RRB- years of the submission date of the UCLA Graduate Division online application . ","Check the testing schedule and registration information on the GRE homepage . ","The UCLA institution code is 4837 . ","The Computer Science department code is 0402 . ","Official scores should be sent to UCLA as soon as possible . ","Meanwhile , applicants are encouraged to submit unofficial student score reports on the Supporting Documents Upload section of the UCLA Graduate Division online application . ","The GRE computer science subject exam is not reviewed by the department . ","The GMAT may not be substituted for the GRE . ","Applicants must take the exam before the December 1 deadline . ","Reports on exams taken in November will be received in time for review . ","GRE reports may be sent to UCLA before online applications are submitted . ","-LRB- 4 -RRB- Test of English as a Foreign Language -LRB- TOEFL -RRB- or the International English Language Testing System -LRB- IELTS -RRB- International students must submit a TOEFL with a score of at least 87 -LRB- computer-based -RRB- or 560 -LRB- paper-based -RRB- , or an IELTS with a score of at least 7.0 . ","Exams must be taken within two -LRB- 2 -RRB- years of the date of the online application submission . ","The UCLA institution code is 4837 . ","The Computer Science department code is 78 . ","Official scores should be sent to UCLA as soon as possible . ","Meanwhile , applicants are encouraged to submit unofficial student score reports on the Supporting Documents Upload section of the UCLA Graduate Division online application . ","Additional TOEFL information is available at Frequently Asked Questions . ","Applicants who hold a bachelor 's degree or higher from a university within the United States or in another country in which English is both the official language AND the medium of instruction , or who have completed at least two years of full-time study at such an institution , are exempted from the TOEFL\/IELTS requirement . ","If you seek this waiver , you only need to submit your official transcript to the CS department as part of the routine application process . ","You need not do anything else . ","Applicants must take the exam before the December 1 deadline . ","Reports on exams taken in November will be received in time for review . ","TOEFL reports may be sent to UCLA before online applications are submitted . ","For more information , visit the UCLA Graduate Division web page . ","-LRB- 5 -RRB- Statement of Purpose -LRB- SOP -RRB- All CS applicants submit an SOP in their Graduate Division online application . ","Instructions are provided in the SOP section of the online application . ","-LRB- 6 -RRB- Resume or Vitae -LRB- Not required -RRB- Applicants are not required to submit a resume or vitae . ","This information may be presented in the UCLA Graduate Division online application in the awards , distinctions , publications and organizations sections , or uploaded as a Supporting Document . ","-LRB- 7 -RRB- Supplemental Application and Writing Sample -LRB- Not required -RRB- Computer Science does not have a supplemental application or require a writing sample . ","The notation on the Graduate Division webpage concerning the supplemental application does not apply to CS applicants . ","CHECKING APPLICATION\/DOCUMENT STATUS You will be contacted if any document or application material is missing or needed . ","Please do not email or call to inquire about receipt of documents as it will delay our efforts to process application material . ","Our office is able to match test reports and transcripts for nearly all applicants . ","An applicant is denied admission consideration due to an incomplete file only if he or she does not respond to our request to submit missing material . ","PhD decisions will be emailed to all applicants by the end of February . ","MS decisions will be emailed out by the end of March . ","MAILING ADDRESS FOR OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPTS Please arrange to have official transcripts sent to the following address before the December 1 deadline : Graduate Student Affairs Office UCLA Computer Science Department 4403 Boelter Hall Los Angeles , CA 90095-1596 Phone : -LRB-310-RRB- 825-6830 Fax : -LRB-310-RRB- 206-8133 Email : gradadm@cs.ucla.edu FINANCIAL SUPPORT Applicants to the Ph.D. program will automatically be considered for departmental funding , and awards will be given based on the applicant 's academic merit and potential . ","All Ph.D. applicants who are offered admission are provided financial support from either department resources or the research grants of individual faculty members . ","Ph.D. admittees are provided a funding offer shortly after being notified of their admission . ","Domestic Ph.D. applicants are strongly encouraged to explore university-wide fellowships , especially the Eugene V. Cota-Robles Fellowship , detailed in the UCLA Graduate Division financial support webpage . ","Unfortunately , M.S. applicants are not eligible for departmental financial support . ","Domestic M.S. applicants are strongly encouraged to explore university-wide fellowships and grants and external fellowships , especially the Graduate Opportunity Fellowship Program -LRB- GOFP -RRB- , detailed in the UCLA Graduate Division financial support webpage . ","International M.S. applicants must demonstrate personal or agency financial support of at least $ 50,000 for the first year to qualify for a visa to study in the U.S. Prospective international M.S. applicants should apply for admission ONLY if they can provide such documentation , which will be requested if admission is offered , in early March . ","Information on the cost of attendance is available on the UCLA Graduate Division webpage . ","Specific charges for tuition and fees and non-resident supplemental tuition are listed on the Registrar 's fee page . ","QUESTIONS ? ","Please CLICK HERE to see our `` Frequently Asked Questions '' page . ","For additional assistance , please contact the Computer Science Graduate Student Affairs Office at : gradadm@cs.ucla.edu Like CS Graduate Admissions on Facebook at : https:\/\/www.facebook.com\/UCLA.CS.Grad.Admissions Loading General Information For Graduate Students Graduate Admission Requirements Graduate Student Resources Graduate Admission Frequently Asked Questions Graduate Student Handbook Deadlines UCLA Engineering Copyright © 2015 UCLA UCLA Home | Terms of Use | Contact Us | Emergency\/Lab Safety | Accessibility | Site Map "]}